
PAGE 1
DRF: LLM-AGENT Dynamic Reputation
Filtering Framework
Yuwei Lou1[0009−0002−5058−6401], Hao Hu1[0009−0001−8277−9876], Shaocong
Ma1[0009−0007−4414−0303], Zongfei Zhang2[0009−0000−6702−8807], Liang
Wang1[0000−0001−5444−748X], Jidong Ge1[0000−0003−1773−0942], and Xianping
Tao1[0000−0002−5536−3891]
State Key Laboratory for Novel Software Technology, Nanjing University, China
{yuweilou,mashaocong}@smail.nju.edu.cn, {myou,wl,gjd,txp}@nju.edu.cn
SCOT – Optimal Sourcing Systems, Amazon.com Services LLC, Washington, USA
zongfe@amazon.com
Abstract.With the evolution of generative AI, multi - agent systems
leveraging large - language models(LLMs) have emerged as a powerful
tool for complex tasks. However, these systems face challenges in quanti-
fying agent performance and lack mechanisms to assess agent credibility.
To address these issues, we introduce DRF, a dynamic reputation filter-
ing framework. DRF constructs an interactive rating network to quantify
agent performance, designs a reputation scoring mechanism to measure
agent honesty and capability, and integrates an Upper Confidence Bound
- based strategy to enhance agent selection efficiency. Experiments show
that DRF significantly improves task completion quality and collabora-
tion efficiency in logical reasoning and code - generation tasks, offering
a new approach for multi - agent systems to handle large - scale tasks.
Keywords:LLM-Agent·Team Optimization·Generative AI.
1 Introduction
In recent years, with the development of generative artificial intelligence, proxy-
based artificial intelligence has achieved significant breakthroughs in practical
applications, gradually evolving towards intelligent agent systems (In this pa-
per, agent framework and agent systems are used interchangeably.) based on
multiple Large Language Models (LLMs). These systems are capable of reason-
ing, learning, and collaboratively performing task actions, thereby promoting
the transition of artificial intelligence from a single-model approach to a multi-
agent collaborative mode. The emergence of research on multi-agent systems
(MASs) based on large language models has made it possible for agents to col-
laborate efficiently in solving complex tasks and to support large-scale collective
actions [4,6,8,13,15,17,19]. The advent of these studies has shown that complex
tasks can be solved not only by the intelligence of a single agent but also by the
powerful potential of multi-agent collaboration in problem-solving.
arXiv:2509.05764v1  [cs.AI]  6 Sep 2025
PAGE 2
2 Y. Lou et al.
Large language model (LLM) agents have shown excellent performance in
various tasks, including affective human-computer interaction [12], code gener-
ation, and autonomous driving. Representative frameworks include Microsoft’s
open-source AutoGen and the popular CrewAI [2]. These frameworks implement
multi-agent systems through role specialization and task decomposition to au-
tomate complex objectives. They simulate virtual teams where each agent has a
predefined role for accomplishing collective tasks.
As mentioned above, most current multi-agent frameworks use agent teams
with different roles (e.g., software engineer, test engineer) to collaborate on tasks.
However, these approaches have three key limitations: predefined role allocation
is heavily human-expert dependent. there’s an over-reliance on agent reliability
without considering potential malicious interference or adversarial prompt injec-
tion, and there’s a lack of agent capability differentiation, ignoring competency
variations that may make some agents unsuitable for specific roles like software
engineers.
We propose that an optimal multi-agent framework should form teams with-
out specific task constraints, enabling agents to dynamically adapt to unknown
taskrequirements.Theframeworkalsoneedsarobustmechanismtoautonomously
identify the most capable and efficient agents for task execution and systemati-
callyeliminateunderperformingormaliciousparticipants.Toachievethesegoals,
this study addresses the challenge of building multi-agent teams in environments
with malicious or low-quality agents. We develop a reinforcement learning frame-
work to dynamically select high-performing agents. Our main contributions are
threefold:
1. We propose an interactive rating network that dynamically assesses agent
performance during task execution, enabling quantification of agent effec-
tiveness.
2. We introduce a reputation iteration mechanism to rigorously evaluate agent
reputation and capability, significantly mitigating task risks posed by low-
efficiency agents.
3. We unify the rating network and the reputation iteration mechanism into
an adaptive UCB selection architecture. This architecture shows excellent
performance in enhancing task completion quality and cost-effectiveness, and
is verified through real-world benchmark tests.
2 Related Work
With the rapid advancement of artificial intelligence, generative AI has achieved
significant breakthroughs in capabilities. Many generative AI systems, such as
ChatGPT [1], Claude, and Deepseek [9], have demonstrated transformative abili-
ties in mathematical reasoning, code generation, and general language tasks. The
emergence of large language models (LLMs) has given rise to the field of prompt
engineering [16,19], which focuses on refining and optimizing input prompts to
further unlock the potential of these models [7]. However, individual agents still
PAGE 3
DRF: LLM-AGENT Dynamic Reputation Filtering Framework 3
T able 1.Overview of related work.
Research Main idea Reference
Prompt Engineering Optimize the capability and
accuracy of a single large
model using prompt words.
[16,19]
Team Collaboration Optimize team structure
and strategies to enhance
the capability and accuracy
of large models.
[3,6,10,17,18,20]
face limitations in handling complex reasoning tasks, leading to the development
of multi-agent systems (MASs) based on LLMs. Research on multi-agent systems
has progressed as follows. Although the optimization of multi-agent systems is
a relatively recent area of interest, the study of optimizing human teams has a
long history [17]. Current research includes Microsoft’s Autogen [10], a frame-
work that enables complex workflows through agent communication. It supports
predefined agent types and employs a unique communication mechanism, utiliz-
ing an Orchestrator-Workers model to coordinate the system’s operations.
Xiong et al. [18] proposed in their 2023 work a method where multiple agents
engage in a “tit-for-tat” debate to express their arguments, thereby optimizing
team performance through dialectical interaction. Similarly, Chen et al. [3] in-
troduced the AgentVerse framework in 2023, which dynamically adjusts team
composition and collaboration mechanisms based on task progress to enhance
the performance of multi-agent systems. Liu Z et al. [10] proposed DyLAN,
a dynamic feedforward network framework that selects agents through mutual
evaluation among LLMs and deactivates underperforming agents. While their
evaluation network inspired our research, we believe their early-stopping mech-
anism for task-participating agents may overlook the potential contributions of
those agents. Therefore, in Section 4, we design and implement a k-layer scoring
network that comprehensively evaluates and quantifies the contributions of all
participating agents.
Reputation is an intrinsic attribute. Most of the previous research has focused
on trust detection in the presence of Sybil attacks, but recent studies rarely as-
sign reputation values to LLMs. Fortunately, Bouchiha M A et al. [20] proposed
a blockchain-based decentralized reputation system, which combines automated
evaluation with human feedback to assign context-aware reputation scores that
accurately reflect LLM behavior. However, their reliance on blockchain technol-
ogy introduces additional overhead and time consumption due to smart contract
operations. In this paper, we propose a more practical reputation scoring mech-
anism to help teams identify and prioritize agents with the highest reputation
and capabilities.
Jiang et al. [6] used additional LLMs in their work to rank the contributions
ofagents,thereby improvingtaskaccuracyand efficiency.Their approachof eval-
uating task progress to rank agents inspired our research. In Section 4, we detail
how our multi-agent task scheduling strategy leverages the contribution values
PAGE 4
4 Y. Lou et al.
generated by the scoring network to influence agent reputation, subsequently
altering agent selection criteria using an UCB approach.
Fig. 1.The framework for DRF
3 System Model and Problem Statement
3.1 System Modeling
This section establishes the foundational modeling and conceptual definitions for
the proposed multi-agent framework. As illustrated in Figure 1, our framework
introduces a novel agent team structure comprising a core agent and multiple
task agents. The core agent is responsible for decision-making and control within
the team, while the task agents primarily execute and evaluate tasks.
Definition 1 (Task, Round). When the core agent receives an input task,
it evaluates the task’s executability. A task is defined as a problem that can be
resolved within a finite number of steps. Each task consists of multiple executable
subtasks, and each subtask can be completed within a limited number of rounds.
We denote the task set asTt ={ST t,1, STt,2, STt,3, . . . STt,m}, where represents
the m-th subtask in the t-th round.
Definition 2 (Reputation). At the beginning of a task, the attributes of agents
within the team are unknown. This implies that the team may consist of agents
with varying capabilities, some of which may underperform or even be com-
promised by malicious prompt injections during task execution. Reputation is
an intrinsic property of an agent, reflecting its trustworthiness and capability
PAGE 5
DRF: LLM-AGENT Dynamic Reputation Filtering Framework 5
in completing tasks. However, reputation cannot be directly extracted from
agents. To this end, we define a reputation score set for the agent team as
R={r t
1, rt
2, . . . , rt
i}, which serves to quantify the scores of the agents.
Definition 3 (Accuracy) Accuracy measures the alignment between an agent’s
task completion and the actual task requirements. Higher accuracy indicates a
smaller discrepancy between the agent’s output and the task’s expectations,
signifying superior task performance.
Definition 4 (Cost) In round t, each task agent submits a bidCt
i to the core
agent, representing its proposed cost for participating in the task(such as API
calls). While agents submit bids in every round, it may not be selected by the
core agent every time.
3.2 Problem F ormulation
The agent team aims to select the agents with the lowest cost and highest effi-
ciency to complete the task. Therefore, the main optimization objectives in this
paper are as follows:
(1) Minimize the task execution cost, that is, the remuneration spent by the
multi-agent team to solve the task should be the lowest. Suppose the agent team
participating in solving the task in roundtisP t, and the cost consumed by
agentiin the participating team isC t
i. Then, the average cost consumed by the
team in roundtis as follows:
¯C t =
P|P t|
i=1 C t
i
|P t| (1)
(2) The highest average payoff. This paper aims to maximize the team’s
payoff for each task, meaning that every time the task is executed, the team can
achieve the degree of meeting the task requirements to the greatest extent, i.e.,
the highest accuracy. We useAt
i to represent the accuracy of the task completed
by agentiin roundt, which can be calculated using the following equation:
At
i = |wt
0 −w t
i|
wt
0
(2)
In Equation (2),wt
i represents the score of agentiin roundt, while denotes
the score threshold within the same paper. Detailed definitions of these symbols
will be provided in Section 4. Then, the average accuracy of the agent team
participating in the task in roundtis:
¯At =
P|P t|
i=1 At
i
|P t| (3)
In summary, the main research objectives of this paper can be obtained as fol-
lows: 


Min( ¯C t) = Min
 P|P t|
i=1 Ct
i
|P t|

Max( ¯At) = Max
 P|P t|
i=1 At
i
|P t|
 (4)
PAGE 6
6 Y. Lou et al.
Fig. 2.Network Construction and Rating Process
Subject to: X
t
X
N
ct
i ≤ ∅, P t ≤K(5)
The aboveϕrepresents the total budget sent to the agent team before the task
starts,P t is the agent team participating in solving the task in roundt, andK
is the maximum number of agents selected in each round.
4 Model Construction
This section provides a detailed description of the model construction. It aims to
build a rating network for LLM agents to quantify their execution performance
in tasks. A reputation iteration mechanism is also constructed to dynamically
distinguish the reputation and capability of different agents. Additionally, a task
scheduling strategy is developed to prioritize the utilization of agents with high
reputation and low cost. This ultimately enables efficient task execution by mul-
tiple LLM agents.
4.1 LLM-Agent Rating Network
When a task is published within a multi-agent team, effectively measuring the
performance of agents in task execution is a challenging problem. Inspired by
the construction of neural networks and the work of DyLAN [10], we propose a
multi-agent rating network to quantify the task execution performance within a
multi-agent team. In this paper, the construction of the rating network system is
dividedintotwostages:forwardpassfornetworkconstructionandbackwardpass
for obtaining ratings. When a specific task is published to the multi-agent team,
agents decide whether to participate in the task based on their own willingness
and capabilities. This leads to the following model construction:
PAGE 7
DRF: LLM-AGENT Dynamic Reputation Filtering Framework 7
Node: In the rating network, a node represents an agent executing the task
during a specific time interval.The agent’s input is divided into two categories:
task context information requiring a solution and solutions received from other
agents in the previous time step. Correspondingly, the output is also divided into
two categories: the solution to the input task and the ratings for the solutions
received in the previous time step. In other words, thei-th agent at timetcan be
defined as a functionft
i, with the prompt information denoted aspi,The specific
role of this function will be described in the following text.
Edge: In the rating network, an edge represents the relationship between
each pair of agents. There are two types of relationships: one is the rating given
by an agent to the solutions proposed by other agents in the previous time step,
and the other is the solution proposed by the agent for the task in the current
time step.
F orward Pass for Network Construction:Each task consists of multiple
time rounds. In each round, an agent generates a solution based on the task and
passes it to other agents. If there were solutions proposed by other agents in the
previous round, the agent will receive and evaluate these solutions. The function
f t
i (pi, STt,m, responses)represents two scenarios in the network construction:if
"responses" is empty, the agent is generating a solution; otherwise, it is eval-
uating one. Inspired by Reflexion [13], which demonstrates that using LLM as
an evaluator can effectively overcome the limitations of traditional metrics in
natural-language tasks, we adopt the same approach for all evaluating in this
paper. And during task execution, as each agent may have potential value, no
agent is eliminated during the network construction process. Following the above
procedure, ak-layer rating network can be formed afterkrounds, as shown in
Figure 2.
Backward Pass for Score Calculation:After forming ak-layer rating
network, backpropagation is performed to evaluate each agent’s task contribu-
tion. Based on the forward pass, the score that agentireceives from agentjin
roundtof the task isw t
j,i =f t
i (pi, STt,m, responses)(note that agentiandj
are different, meaning agents cannot rate their own solutions).so we can obtain
the rating set for agentiin roundtas

wt
1,i, wt
2,i, wt
3,i, . . . , wt
j,i

. We can also
obtain the set of reputation values for all agents participating in the task as
rt−1
1 , rt−1
2 , . . . , rt−1
j

,wherer t−1
j represents the reputation value of agentjin
roundt−1. For detailed descriptions and calculations, see Section 4.2.Then, we
can calculate the score of the agent in roundtusing Equation (6).
wt
i =
|P t|X
j=0
wt
j,i ∗φ j, φj = ert−1
j
P|P t|
k=1 ert−1
k
(6)
Here,w t
i denotes the score of agentiin roundt, whileφ j represents the
significance coefficient of the reputation of agentjwithin the set of agents par-
ticipating in the taskP t.This implies that evaluations from agents with higher
reputation are typically more valuable, which makes the rating network more
rational.
PAGE 8
8 Y. Lou et al.
Algorithm 1DRF-Reputation Algorithm
Require:reputation setR, parameterw o, the coefficient of reputation incrementδ,
the penalty coefficientβ, selected agents setPt
Ensure:reputation setR
1:foragent inP t do
2: Provide a Task Plan
3: Deliver to the remaining agents for evaluation.
4: Join the forward pass to form the network.
5:ifagent obtains all the evaluationsthen
6: Initiate backpropagation
7: calculatew t
i by using Eq.(6)
8:end if
9:ifw o > w t
i then
10: updateR[worker]using Eq.(8)
11:else
12: updateR[worker]using Eq.(7)
13:end if
14:end for
15:returnR
4.2 LLM-Agent Reputation Iteration Mechanism
When multiple agents begin to execute tasks, they will form a rating network
based on the content described in Section 4.1. After completing one round of
rating, each agent will obtain its task score. Since there may be some agents
with lower capabilities or those engaging in malicious interference within the
group completing the task, it is necessary to assign reputation scores to the
agents. This helps decision-makers better select agents from the group.
For each agentiparticipating in the task in roundt, we assign a reputation
valuer t
i to measure its credibility (reputation). We considerwt
i as a performance
metricofanagent,whichisdeterminedbyitsowncapabilitiesandcharacteristics
(such as honesty). A more honest agent, that is, one with a higher reputation,
is expected to complete the task with better quality, meaning a largerwt
i value.
Therefore, we need to design a mechanism to better evaluate the reputation of
agents.
Reputation Increment Mechanism:
Each time a task rating network is formed, we can obtain the task scorewt
i for
each agent. During the task execution, there is a specific task thresholdwo for
each task, which is used to measure whether the task solution provided by the
agent can be well accomplished. The threshold is generally set according to task
requirements and empirical experience. Ifwo ≤w t
i, it indicates that agentihas
performed well in that task time interval and its reputation should be increased,
as shown in Equation (7).
rt
i =r t−1
i +w t
i ∗
 
1−r t−1
i

∗∂(7)
PAGE 9
DRF: LLM-AGENT Dynamic Reputation Filtering Framework 9
Here,r t
i is the reputation value of agentiin roundt,r t−1
i is the reputation
value of agentiin roundt−1,w t
i is the task score of agentiin roundt, andα
is the coefficient of reputation increment.
Reputation Decay Mechanism:
Similar to the reputation increment mechanism, whenw o > w t
i, it indicates
that agentihas performed poorly in that task time interval, likely due to mali-
cious interference or inherently being a subpar agent. Therefore, we need to use
Equation (8) to decrease the reputation of the agent.
rt
i =r t−1
i −
 
wt
i ∗r t−1
i

∗β(8)
Here,r t
i is the reputation value of agentiin roundt,r t−1
i is the reputation
value of agentiin roundt−1,w t
i is the task score of agentiin roundt, andβ
is the penalty coefficient for reputation. According to Equation (12), we can see
that the lower the task scorewt
i, the greater the decline in reputation, allowing
for quicker identification of malicious or underperforming agents.
Algorithm 1illustrates the process of the reputation iteration mechanism
we employ, incorporating a multi-agent rating network. Here,Rdenotes the set
of agent reputations, andP t represents the set of agents participating in the
task.
4.3 LLM-Agent T ask Scheduling Strategy
For each agent team participating in a task, we can effectively rate and monitor
the agents through the multi - agent rating network in Section 4.1, and eval-
uate agent attributes via the multi - agent reputation iteration mechanism in
Section 4.2. But in real - world scenarios, we initially don’t know which agent
has the highest reputation or performs best in the task. So, we need a strategy
to gradually explore and filter out more competent agents from this unknown
situation.
The UCB-based Multi-Armed Bandit algorithm [5,11] is a reinforcement
learning method that balances exploration and exploitation. In our model, each
agent is like an arm of the MAB. Selecting an agent is analogous to pulling an
arm. The outcome of each pull depends only on the current arm chosen, not
on previously selected arms or past results. This meets the Markov property
requirement. The algorithm helps choose between agents with the highest cur-
rent task payoff (exploitation) and those that might offer higher future payoffs
(exploration).
At the outset of the task, we lack information on the agents’ attributes and
reputation values. Hence, it is imperative to swiftly identify agents with high
reputation values. As the algorithm progresses, we incrementally uncover the
reputation values of some agents through continuous exploration and exploita-
tion. Consequently, it becomes crucial to consider the overall payoff of agent
recruitment. In this paper, the overall payoff incorporates multiple factors, in-
cluding reputation and cost (with cost denoting the expense of agent invocation).
PAGE 10
10 Y. Lou et al.
Algorithm 2DRF Selection Algorithm
Require:The threshold of reputationR 0, reputation setR, costs setC, The total
budgetϕ, parametersγ,β,σ
1:t= 1, init P t
2:whileϕ >0do
3: obtain agents that want to participate in the task.
4:foragent in agentsdo
5:ifR[agent]≥R 0 then
6: add the agent toP t.
7:else
8: calculateS t
i by using Eq.(9) with a custom weight.
9:end if
10:end for
11: select agents byS t
i and getP t.
12:foragent inP t do
13: let agent do tasks and get a rating network.
14: calculate the agent’sw t
i.
15: use Reputation Iteration Mechanism to adjust the agent’s Reputation.
16: perform payment for the agent.
17: calculate the payoff.
18:end for
19:t=t+ 1
20:end while
To address these two scenarios, we have redesigned the UCB algorithm to fa-
cilitate the selection of efficient agents for task execution by the agent team, as
illustrated in Equation (9).Here,S t
i is the selection basis value for agentiin
roundt,r t−1
i is the reputation value of agentiin roundt−1,γis a positive
parameter that allows multiple possibilities for the influence ofxt−1
i , andn t−1
i
is the number of times agentiwas selected in roundt−1,c t
i represents the
cost incurred by agentiin executing the task in roundt.δrepresents a weight
coefficient that adjusts the proportion between reputation and cost.
St
i =δ∗r t−1
i + (1−δ)c t
i +x t−1
i , xt−1
i =
vuut γ∗ln
PN
j=1 nt−1
j

nt−1
i
(9)
Algorithm 2 provides a detailed illustration of the improved UCB algorithm
integrated with the rating network and reputation updates in our DRF frame-
work. During the execution of the UCB algorithm, the selection basis valueSt
i
is influenced by both the rating network and the changes in reputation.Here,R0
denotes the upper bound of reputation. Agents exceeding this value are deemed
trustworthy and are exempted from further reputation checks.
PAGE 11
DRF: LLM-AGENT Dynamic Reputation Filtering Framework 11
T able 2.LLM Prompt Setting.
Role Prompt
Executor You are a task-solving assistant capable of complet-
ing tasks based on the user-specified ability level (low,
medium, high). The ability level determines the precision
andcomplexityofyourtaskcompletion:Lowability:Your
answers are very simple, mostly incorrect, with a very
low probability of being correct.Medium ability: Your an-
swers are average, generating imprecise solutions that are
not detailed or clear.High ability: Your answers are very
precise and comprehensive, capable of handling complex
tasks and providing optimal solutions.User Input:Please
specify your ability level: ability.Please describe the task
you need to complete: task.Output:Based on the ability
level specified by the user, strictly generate a task so-
lution that aligns with the description of your current
ability level.
Evaluator You are a strict task evaluation assistant capable of as-
sessing the answers provided by users to task solutions
and assigning scores:If the task answer is very precise and
comprehensive, capable of handling complex tasks and
providing optimal solutions, score between 80-100;If the
task answer is usable but not detailed or rigorous enough,
score between 60-80;If the task answer is imprecise or
contains errors, score below 60.User Input:Task solution
answer:answer.Output: (Note that when outputting in
markdown, the mask field should not be bolded; it should
remain as plain text. For example:)mask: 85 ,des: The
evaluation of the task
5 Experiment
This section concentrates on the experimental settings and results. To demon-
strate the efficiency and superiority of our proposed LLM - based agent systems,
we conduct experiments using real - world datasets. We compare DRF with
other LLM- based agent systems to assess its performance. The experiments are
analyzed in terms of experimental preparation, performance experiments, and
comparative experiments.
5.1 Experimental Preparation
Each of our agents consists of two LLM models, Executor(for task execution)
and Evaluator(for task evaluation), both driven by the DeepSeek-R1 model. To
simulate different agent capabilities, we input a meta-prompt to each model
with a capability description field. “Low” indicates low capability or a malicious
PAGE 12
12 Y. Lou et al.
T able 3.The experimental results on the HumanEval dataset. We conduct multiple
tests and report the average results.
Agent SystemSelect
agent
Pass@1(6) Pass@1(12)Pass@1(18)Cost(6) Cost(12) Cost(18)
CodeT – 64.5 64.3 65.8 – – –
DyLAN 3 80.2 83.1 88.3 0.84 0.86 0.81
Reflexion 3 74.2 80.6 86.5 0.86 0.90 0.88
DRF(Ours) 3 84.3 86.5 92.9 0.76 0.74 0.71
T able 4.The experimental results on the BigBench dataset.We conduct multiple tests
and report the average accuracy.
Agent SystemSelect
agent
Result(6) Result(12) Result(18) Cost(6) Cost(12) Cost(18)
LLM-Debate 5 59.4 61.6 63.4 0.89 0.88 0.91
DyLAN 5 62.5 64.4 66.2 0.84 0.86 0.83
Reflexion 5 53.1 58.2 60.3 0.86 0.89 0.87
DRF(Ours) 5 64.6 65.9 70.5 0.79 0.81 0.75
agent (which generates random or wrong solutions, similar to low capability).
“Medium” means the agent may solve tasks correctly or incorrectly. “High” in-
dicates the agent can efficiently complete tasks. We set three LLM agent com-
binations: 6-12-18, with 30% low/high-capability agents and the rest medium.
Hyperparametersαandβaretypicallysetbasedonmachinelearningexperience,
with a default value of 0.1.γis set to 2 following UCB algorithm conventions.
The reputation threshold is set to 0.9 in this paper, and the initial reputation of
each agent is set to 0.5. In previous studies, the cost of LLM agents was rarely
discussed. Recently, DyLAN [10] measured it by API calls. To better simulate
the cost differences among agents (which vary in reality), we used a uniform
distribution to generate per-task costs for each agent, mapping all costs to (0,1).
We use two datasets for our experiments. For code tasks, we use the Hu-
maneval dataset (Chen et al. [5]), which is designed for code completion, to test
the capabilities of different LLM agent systems and DRF. For logical reasoning
tests, we use the logic grid puzzles task from the BigBench dataset (Srivastava
et al., 2022 [14]) to further compare these agent systems. We collect prompts
from various LLM agent systems and have DeepSeek-R1 conduct further sum-
marization and analysis. The prompts listed in Table 2 are derived and used in
all subsequent experiments.
5.2 Performance Experiments
We conducted experiments on the Humaneval dataset, randomly sampled 30 test
cases for experimentation, with each test case representing a round in the DRF
framework. We setδto 1 in DRF, focusing solely on reputation, and adjusted
the temperature hyperparameter of the LLM to 0.2 to ensure coherent output.
The results are shown in Figure 3. It can be seen that DRF can increase the
PAGE 13
DRF: LLM-AGENT Dynamic Reputation Filtering Framework 13
Fig. 3.Changes in the reputation of agents
reputation of high - capability agents and decrease that of low - capability ones
within limited rounds. The fluctuating reputation of mid - capability agents
is due to their inconsistent task performance, leading to variable scores and
reputation changes. Moreover, DRF variations with different numbers of agents
can effectively detect the preset numbers of high, mid, and low - capability
agents, confirming the effectiveness and feasibility of DRF.
5.3 Comparative Experiment Performance
The experiments have demonstrated that DRF can effectively identify high - rep-
utation, high - quality LLM - Agents in a team during task execution through
a rating network and reputation iteration mechanism. In the comparative ex-
periments, we benchmark DRF against mainstream LLM agent frameworks to
evaluate its efficiency.
Forcodetasks,wecompareDRFwiththreeLLMagentframeworks—DyLAN
[10], CodeT [20], and Reflexion [13]. Experiments are conducted on the Hu-
maneval dataset, with performance measured using the pass@1 metric. Agents
for each framework are selected from Section 5.1 to ensure uniform external
conditions. In each experiment, three agents are selected from the agent team
to participate in the task, and the agent temperature is set to 0.2. In DRF,δ
is set to 0.7. For Reflexion, three agents are assigned to the roles of executor,
evaluator, and refresher. In DyLAN, three agents perform the task and form a
dynamic early-stopping network.
For logical reasoning tests, CodeT is no longer effective. We selected the
moresuitabledeliberativemulti-agentsystemLLM-Debate[14]asareplacement.
DyLAN, Reflexion, and DRF also participated in the task. In this experiment,
we set the number of agents to select from the agent team at 5(Logical reasoning
tasks are complex and require increasing the number of agents.), with the agent
temperature at 0.8 (to encourage more diverse responses in reasoning tasks based
on prompts), while other framework settings remained similar to those in the
code task. We report the accuracy.
PAGE 14
14 Y. Lou et al.
Table 3 shows the experimental results of four LLM agent systems with dif-
ferent numbers of agents. Pass@1(6) indicates the Pass@1 metric when there are
six agents in total."Select agent" is the number of agents chosen from the total to
participate in the task. As the total number of agents increases, the performance
of DyLAN, Reflexion, and DRF improves. This is because a larger total number
of agents leads to more high-reputation agents, increasing the likelihood of their
participation and thus enhancing performance. DRF consistently outperforms
the other systems across all metrics. It effectively filters agents based on repu-
tation and prioritizes high-reputation, low-cost agents for subsequent tasks. Al-
though DyLAN’s early-stopping mechanism can identify low-reputation agents,
it cannot exclude them in subsequent rounds. Reflexion, being more dependent
on agent capability and lacking a filtering mechanism for low-reputation agents,
underperforms DRF and DyLAN in experiments.
Table 4 presents the experimental results for logical reasoning tests. The
result(6) column shows the accuracy with six agents. DRF outperforms other
LLM agent systems in terms of both performance and average cost. We at-
tribute DRF’s performance edge to its integrated rating network and reputa-
tion iteration mechanism, which facilitates the identification of high-reputation
agents. Additionally, the task scheduling strategy effectively utilizes these high-
reputation, low-cost agents and prioritizes their selection for subsequent tasks.
6 CONCLUSION
We introduce DRF, an LLM agent framework combining an interactive rat-
ing network, a reputation iteration mechanism, and a UCB selection strategy.
It enhances collaboration efficiency and task completion quality in LLM-based
multi-agent framework. Unlike conventional systems, DRF uses the UCB rein-
forcement learning method to leverage the reputation attribute of LLM agents.
Extensive real - dataset experiments show DRF excels in logical reasoning and
code generation, outperforming other current agent frameworks under the same
conditions.
Future work will focus on two directions. First, we’ll explore using advanced
reinforcementlearningalgorithms,suchasDQN,inDRFtohandlemorecomplex
and diverse tasks. Second, we’ll investigate how to enhance certain LLMs with
an experience - augmented reputation model, providing more LLM agent options
for complex tasks.
References
1. AN, J., DING, W., LIN, C.: Correspondence : Chatgpt: tackle the grow-
ing carbon footprint of generative ai (Mar 2023).https://doi.org/10.1038/
d41586-023-00843-2
2. Barbarroxa, R., Gomes, L., Vale, Z.: Benchmarking large language models for
multi-agent systems: A comparative analysis of autogen, crewai, and taskweaver.
In: International Conference on Practical Applications of Agents and Multi-Agent
Systems. pp. 39–48. Springer (2024)
PAGE 15
DRF: LLM-AGENT Dynamic Reputation Filtering Framework 15
3. Chen, W., Su, Y., Zuo, J., Yang, C., Yuan, C., Qian, C., Chan, C.M., Qin, Y., Lu,
Y., Xie, R., et al.: Agentverse: Facilitating multi-agent collaboration and exploring
emergent behaviors in agents. arXiv preprint arXiv:2308.108482(4), 6 (2023)
4. Du, Y., Li, S., Torralba, A., Tenenbaum, J.B., Mordatch, I.: Improving factual-
ity and reasoning in language models through multiagent debate. In: Forty-first
International Conference on Machine Learning (2023)
5. Garivier, A., Cappé, O.: The kl-ucb algorithm for bounded stochastic bandits and
beyond. In: Proceedings of the 24th annual conference on learning theory. pp.
359–376. JMLR Workshop and Conference Proceedings (2011)
6. Jiang, D., Ren, X., Lin, B.Y.: Llm-blender: Ensembling large language models with
pairwise ranking and generative fusion. arXiv preprint arXiv:2306.02561 (2023)
7. Kojima, T., Gu, S.S., Reid, M., Matsuo, Y., Iwasawa, Y.: Large language models
are zero-shot reasoners. Advances in neural information processing systems35,
22199–22213 (2022)
8. Li, G., Hammoud, H., Itani, H., Khizbullin, D., Ghanem, B.: Camel: Communica-
tive agents for" mind" exploration of large language model society. Advances in
Neural Information Processing Systems36, 51991–52008 (2023)
9. Liu, A., Feng, B., Xue, B., Wang, B., Wu, B., Lu, C., Zhao, C., Deng, C., Zhang,
C., Ruan, C., et al.: Deepseek-v3 technical report. arXiv preprint arXiv:2412.19437
(2024)
10. Liu, Z., Zhang, Y., Li, P., Liu, Y., Yang, D.: Dynamic llm-agent network: An
llm-agent collaboration framework with agent team optimization. arXiv preprint
arXiv:2310.02170 (2023)
11. Lou, Y., Tang, J., Han, F., Liu, A., Xiong, N.N., Zhang, S., Wang, T., Dong, M.:
Mab-rp: A multi-armed bandit based workers selection scheme for accurate data
collection in crowdsensing. Information Sciences669, 120554 (2024)
12. Ren, Q., Belpaeme, T.: Exploring llm-generated culture-specific affective human-
robot tactile interaction. arXiv preprint arXiv:2507.22905 (2025)
13. Shinn, N., Cassano, F., Gopinath, A., Narasimhan, K., Yao, S.: Reflexion: Lan-
guage agents with verbal reinforcement learning. Advances in Neural Information
Processing Systems36, 8634–8652 (2023)
14. Srivastava, A., Rastogi, A., Rao, A., Shoeb, A.A.M., Abid, A., Fisch, A., Brown,
A.R., Santoro, A., Gupta, A., Garriga-Alonso, A., et al.: Beyond the imitation
game: Quantifying and extrapolating the capabilities of language models. arXiv
preprint arXiv:2206.04615 (2022)
15. Wang, Z., Mao, S., Wu, W., Ge, T., Wei, F., Ji, H.: Unleashing cognitive syn-
ergy in large language models: A task-solving agent through multi-persona self-
collaboration. arXiv preprint arXiv:2307.05300 (2023)
16. White, J., Fu, Q., Hays, S., Sandborn, M., Olea, C., Gilbert, H., Elnashar, A.,
Spencer-Smith, J., Schmidt, D.C.: A prompt pattern catalog to enhance prompt
engineering with chatgpt. arXiv preprint arXiv:2302.11382 (2023)
17. Wu, Q., Bansal, G., Zhang, J., Wu, Y., Zhang, S., Zhu, E., Li, B., Jiang, L.,
Zhang, X., Wang, C.: Autogen: Enabling next-gen llm applications via multi-agent
conversation framework. arXiv preprint arXiv:2308.081553(4) (2023)
18. Xiong, K., Ding, X., Cao, Y., Liu, T., Qin, B.: Examining inter-consistency of large
language models collaboration: An in-depth analysis via debate. arXiv preprint
arXiv:2305.11595 (2023)
19. Zheng, C., Liu, Z., Xie, E., Li, Z., Li, Y.: Progressive-hint prompting improves
reasoning in large language models. arXiv preprint arXiv:2304.09797 (2023)
20. Zheng, Y., Li, G., Li, Y., Shan, C., Cheng, R.: Truth inference in crowdsourcing: Is
the problem solved? Proceedings of the VLDB Endowment10(5), 541–552 (2017)