
PAGE 1
#GetTheFutureYouWant
Rise of agentic AI
How trust is the key 
to human-AI collaboration
PAGE 2
Table of 
contents
2
Capgemini Research Institute 2025
Rise of agentic AI: How trust is the key to human-AI collaboration
PAGE 3
3
Capgemini Research Institute 2025
Rise of agentic AI: How trust is the key to human-AI collaboration
PAGE 4
Executive 
summary 
AI agents constitute one of the fastest-emerging technological 
trends (see page six,“What are AI agents and what is agentic 
AI?”). Unlike traditional AI applications, which often act as 
tools focusing on narrow, predefined tasks, agentic AI can 
manage and execute end-to-end processes with less human 
intervention, evolving from tools to team members and 
marking a new era in enterprise productivity, efficiency, and 
growth. 
Based on our research findings and current adoption 
trajectories, we project that AI agents could generate up to 
$450 billion in economic value through revenue uplift and 
cost savings across surveyed countries by 2028. Competitive 
momentum is clearly building: 93% of leaders believe that 
those who successfully scale AI agents in the next 12 months 
will gain an edge over industry peers. 
Already, 14% of organizations have implemented AI agents 
at partial (12%) or full scale (2%) and nearly one-quarter 
(23%) have launched pilots, while another 61% are preparing 
for or exploring deployment. As these numbers showed a 
remarkably fast adoption, we reconfirmed the responses of a 
majority of survey respondents (900 out of 1500). This exercise 
showed results similar to the original data, confirming strong 
adoption numbers. In the near term, AI agents are expected to 
see most extensive adoption in customer service, IT, and sales, 
expanding into operations, R&D, and marketing over the next 
three years. But expectations for highly autonomous systems 
remain limited. Our survey shows that, in 12 months, only 15% 
of all business processes are expected to operate at Level 3 
(semi-autonomous) to Level 5 (fully autonomous). This share 
is expected to grow to 25% by 2028. Most AI agents currently 
operate at low levels of autonomy, primarily as simple agents 
or semi-autonomous agents. Notably, AI agents can deliver 
tangible value even at intermediate levels of autonomy. 
Moreover, trust in AI agents is declining. Only 27% of 
organizations express trust in fully autonomous AI agents, 
from 43% 12 months ago. This is potentially a reflection of 
business reality taking hold after the initial enthusiasm and 
overconfidence in agentic AI capabilities. Ethical concerns 
around AI, such as data privacy, algorithmic bias, and the 
“AI black box,” are prevalent, but few organizations act 
4
Capgemini Research Institute 2025
Rise of agentic AI: How trust is the key to human-AI collaboration
PAGE 5
Executive 
summary 
decisively to mitigate them. Furthermore, only half claim 
sufficient knowledge of AI agent capabilities, and even 
fewer can pinpoint where agents outperform traditional AI 
or automation. Equally worryingly, fewer than one in five 
organizations report high levels of data-readiness, and over 
80% lack mature AI infrastructure, significantly limiting their 
ability to scale agentic systems effectively.
Nonetheless, in 3 years, organizations expect to have AI agents 
as members within human-supervised teams. This means that 
AI agents must be seen not as tools, but as part of the team. 
Such human-AI agent collaboration enhances the value of AI 
agents, driving transparency, trust, and positive outcomes. But 
61% of organizations report rising employee anxiety about the 
impact of AI agents on their employment prospects, and over 
half believe AI agents will displace more jobs than they create. 
Despite this, fewer organizations are prioritizing reskilling or 
workforce restructuring.
To harness the full potential of AI agents, organizations must 
move beyond the hype and work toward:
• Redesigning processes to deploy AI agents effectively and 
reimagining business models
• Transforming the workforce and organizational structure to 
fully onboard a new, agentic workforce as team members
• Striking the right balance between agent autonomy and human 
involvement 
• Strengthening data and technological foundations to scale AI 
agents
• Ensuring AI agents operate within defined scope of 
execution,and remain traceable and explainable to earn trust 
• Developing and integrating ethical AI that address the risks 
posed by autonomous AI agents.
5
Capgemini Research Institute 2025
Rise of agentic AI: How trust is the key to human-AI collaboration
PAGE 6
Jason Gelman
Director of product 
management, Vertex AI,
Google Cloud
Itai Asseo 
Head of Incubation and Brand 
Strategy (AI Research), 
Salesforce
Anna Kopp 
Digital Lead Germany,
Microsoft
Lynn Comp                                    
Head of Global Sales and GTM 
(AI Center of Excellence),
Intel
Eric Pace
Head of AI, 
Cox Communication 
Joji Philip
Director AI/ML Products,
Ericsson
We’d also like 
to thank the 
many industry 
executives who 
shared their 
valuable insights 
with us.
6
Capgemini Research Institute 2025
Rise of agentic AI: How trust is the key to human-AI collaboration
PAGE 7
Susan Emerson
Senior VP, AI Product,
Salesforce
Dorit Zilbershot
GVP, AI Experiences & Innovation,  
ServiceNow
Dr. Walter Sun
SVP, Global Head of AI,
SAP
Vishal Singhvi
Director, Strategic 
Initiatives – Gen AI,
Microsoft
Dr. Suraj Srinivasan,
Philip J. Stomberg Professor of 
Business Administration and Chair 
of the MBA Elective Curriculum, 
Harvard Business School
Joji Philip
Director AI/ML Products,
Ericsson
Preetha Sekharan
VP, Digital Incubator 
(Applied AI and 
Transformation),  
Unum
Daniel Vassilev
Co-Founder and Co-CEO, 
Relevance AI
7
Capgemini Research Institute 2025
Rise of agentic AI: How trust is the key to human-AI collaboration
PAGE 8
Who should 
read this report 
and why?
This report offers an overview of the transformative 
potential of agentic AI and AI agents for large 
organizations across all industries and sectors. It 
is primarily intended for senior executives in data 
and AI functions, and those in strategy, finance, IT, 
innovation, and risk and compliance, among others, 
who are involved in the implementation of Gen AI or 
agentic AI at their organization.
The report will help business executives identify the 
potential of agentic AI, assess the level of trust and 
collaboration between humans and AI agents, and 
the risks and challenges of implementing and scaling 
agentic AI. The report draws on the comprehensive 
analysis of a survey of 1,500 leaders (director level 
and above) across 14 countries. Finally, it offers 
recommendations for business leaders to accelerate 
their organizations’ agentic AI journeys.
8
Capgemini Research Institute 2025
Rise of agentic AI: How trust is the key to human-AI collaboration
PAGE 9
AI agents are programs/platforms/software that are 
connected to the business environment with a defined 
boundary, make decisions autonomously, and act to achieve 
specific goals with or without human intervention. With the 
latest advances in reasoning AI models, AI agents are able to 
break down tasks, “reason” through potential pathways to 
find solutions to the given problem, try those solutions, and 
present successful outcomes.  
 
Examples of AI agents include: OpenAI’s Operator, Devin, 
Manus, Google Gemini Agent Mode, Runner H by H Company. 
• Operator by OpenAI can handle a wide range of repetitive 
browser tasks such as filling out forms, ordering groceries, 
booking restaurant tables, etc., based on user preferences.1  
• Devin, branded as the AI software engineer, is capable of 
automating software development tasks such as code 
generation, debugging, and deploying code with minimal 
human input.2
• Manus is a general AI agent that handles various tasks in 
work and life such as creating personalized travel itineraries, 
analyzing documents, conducting research, and generating 
content and codes.3    
What are AI 
agents and 
agentic AI?
Examples of AI/Gen AI assistants include: Microsoft 
Copilot, Google Gemini, ChatGPT, Le Chat by Mistral AI.  
 
Agentic AI is a broader term and includes systems, 
platforms, practices, tools, and technologies that 
enable agents to function. Unless otherwise 
specified, the two terms are used interchangeably in 
this survey. 
 
Agentic systems have been around since well before 
the current AI boom and can be built using both AI 
and non-AI technologies. Recent advances in AI, 
language models, and reasoning capabilities have 
driven the rise of agentic AI systems.
9
Capgemini Research Institute 2025
Rise of agentic AI: How trust is the key to human-AI collaboration
PAGE 10
AI agents Key features AI/Gen AI assistants
High autonomy and agency: operate independently
Take prompted and unprompted action to achieve 
speciﬁed goals within a workﬂow, handling 
complex tasks requiring specialized capabilities
Anticipate needs and take initiative
Learn and adapt continuously; often with 
long-term memory and contextual awareness
Can be built on AI or non-AI systems; does not 
necessarily use Gen AI or LLMs
Interact with external and internal data, tools, and 
systems in real time; better positioned to handle errors
Incapable of operating autonomously
Take actions based on user prompts and predeﬁned logic; 
handling discrete sub-tasks (generate content, images, 
code, etc.)
Respond to explicit prompts 
Pre-trained, with limited to no real-time learning or 
long-term memory retention
Built on AI/ML, mainly uses pre-trained data
Cannot perform real-time interactions; can access 
external tools like web search when enabled and have  
limited error-handling capabilities
Manage the entire campaign lifecycle autonomously – customize 
content to audience, test creatives, launch campaigns, dynamically 
adjust targeting and messaging based on real-time performance
Generate campaign briefs based on direct user prompts and 
existing templates
Autonomy
Action
Proactivity
Learning ability
Underlying tech
Interactivity
Example
How do AI agents differ from AI/Gen AI assistants?
NB: Not all AI agents are subject to the conditions listed above. For example, while AI agents are often characterized by autonomy, they 
can also operate semi-autonomously.
Source: Capgemini Research Institute analysis.
In essence, AI agents 
can proactively manage 
and execute end-to-
end processes with less 
human intervention, 
whereas AI/Gen AI 
assistants often act 
as tools focused on 
discrete, predefined 
tasks based on explicit 
prompts.
10
Capgemini Research Institute 2025
Rise of agentic AI: How trust is the key to human-AI collaboration
PAGE 11
Why the hype? 
AI agents are at the center of the global technology narrative 
in 2025. We at the Capgemini Research Institute flagged AI 
agents as a top technology trend for 2025.4  
• The past year has marked a turning point in automated 
software agents, with breakthroughs in natural language 
processing (NLP) dramatically expanding their capabilities 
not only to answer questions, but to plan, collaborate, 
reason, execute tasks, and improve continuously. 
• Figure 1 shows that the length of tasks (measured by 
how long it takes a human to complete them) for which 
AI agents can achieve an 80% success rate has been 
doubling roughly every 213 days – indicating 
exponential growth in model capabilities.5
• AI had already surpassed human performance across 
many tasks, including several previously challenging 
benchmarks, with only a few exceptions. Even in those 
areas, the performance gap between AI and humans is 
shrinking rapidly.6
• Tech giants including Google, Microsoft, Amazon Web 
Services (AWS), and OpenAI, and enterprise solution 
providers such as Salesforce, ServiceNow, and SAP are 
racing to roll out AI agent platforms, tools and 
frameworks. These range from orchestration protocols, 
plug-and-play agents that integrate directly with 
enterprise systems like CRM and ERP, to agent studios for 
building customized agents. 
• As Gen AI models mature and competition intensifies, cost 
dynamics are also shifting.7
• The inference cost for a system performing at the level 
of GPT-3.5 dropped over 280-fold between November 
2022 and October 2024 (see figure 1), while hardware 
costs are down 30% annually and energy efficiency has 
improved by 40% each year.8  
• Open-source models are closing the gap with closed 
models – for instance, DeepSeek’s entry into the AI 
space sparked significant concern among investors in 
rival technologies, as it demonstrated impressive 
capabilities while reportedly using fewer resources and 
lower costs than traditional AI models.9  
•  At geopolitical level, advancements in agentic AI are not 
only a matter of innovation, but one of national capability 
and influence. A recent report suggests that the AI ‘space 
race’ could reshape the world order.10 Discussions about 
data and model sovereignty are also prominent, as some 
countries consider the implications of relying on external 
providers for critical infrastructure.
What was once a theoretical construct is quickly becoming a 
cornerstone of digital transformation. Looking ahead, AI 
agents may soon be ubiquitous and indispensable, as mobile 
apps are today.
AI agents are one of the top technology 
trends of 2025
11
Capgemini Research Institute 2025
Rise of agentic AI: How trust is the key to human-AI collaboration
PAGE 12
Model capability to handle longer tasks is rising expontentially
davinci-002 (GPT-3)
gpt-3.5-turbo-instruct
GPT-4 0314
GPT-4 1106
GPT-4o
o1-preview
o1 Claude 3.5 Sonnet (Old)
Claude 3.5 Sonnet (New)
Claude 3.7 Sonnet 
0
200
400
600
800
1000
1200
1400
2019 2020 2021 2023 2024 2025 2027 2028
Model release date
Length of tasks AI agents have been able to complete 
autonomously with 80% success rate
10
1
0.1
Sep-2022 Jan-2023 May-2023 Sep-2023
Publication date
Inference price across select benchmark, 2022-24Inference price (in USD per million tokens - log scale)
Jan-2024 May-2024 Sep-2024 Jan-2025
GPT-3.5 level+ in multitask 
language understanding (MMLU)
GPT-4 level+ in code generation 
(HumanEval)
GPT-4o level+ in PhD-level science 
questions (GPQA Diamond)
GPT-4o level+ in LMSYS Chatbot 
Arena Elo
GPT-3.5
GPT-4-0314
GPT-4o-2024-05
Llama-3.1-Instruct-8B
Claude-3.5-Sonnet-2024-06
DeepSeek-V3
Gemini-1.5-Flash-8B
Phi 4
Figure 1.
Model capabilities are rising exponentially, while inference costs have dropped over 100x in the past couple of years
Source: (i) Derived from Arxiv, “Measuring AI Ability to Complete Long Tasks,” March 2025.
(ii) Stanford University HAI, Artificial Intelligence Index Report 2025, 2025; Epoch AI, 2025; Artificial Analysis, 2025.
12
Capgemini Research Institute 2025
Rise of agentic AI: How trust is the key to human-AI collaboration
PAGE 13
E The above iterations can be repeated in different 
combinations and until the stated goals have been 
achieved. The agent utilizes its memory to maintain 
context, learn from previous iterations or past 
experiences, and improve its performance over time.
F Agent-to-Agent (A2A) protocols help collaboration 
between agents, while Model Context Protocol (MCP) aids 
in accessing external tools. MIT’s Project NANDA is an 
initiative to develop the foundations of the Internet of AI 
Agents. 
Although AI agents could be set up to operate autonomously, 
they still function within the scope of execution. Critical 
situations will require human oversight or decision-making. 
 
For more details on these terms, please see the glossary in 
the appendix.
How do AI agents work?
A AI agents interact with their environment and receive 
triggers, inputs, or goals from users. 
B By employing reasoning models, they can break down the 
goals into specific actions or steps and prioritize them.
C For task execution, AI agents may access internal data and 
enterprise tools systems (such as knowledge bases and 
customer relationship management [CRM]), external tools 
(such as web search, third-party databases), and interact 
with other AI agents, or request clarification from users. 
D In a multi-agent system, an “orchestrator” agent can break 
down the larger problem into smaller pieces to be tackled 
using agents that leverage small language models, 
significantly reducing the cost and time needed to arrive at 
an outcome. Guardrails enforce ethical, operational, and 
safety standards.
13
Capgemini Research Institute 2025
Rise of agentic AI: How trust is the key to human-AI collaboration
PAGE 14
Figure 2.
Anatomy of a typical AI agent workflow
Source: Capgemini Research Institute analysis.
Note: Short-term memory for in-context learning. Long-term memory enables the agent to retain and recall vast information over extended periods, leveraging an external vector store for fast retrieval.
Other AI agents
Guardrails
Environment Human input
The Internet of AI agents 
(e.g., NANDA)
Orchestration
AI agent
Agent to Agent 
protocol 
(e.g., Google’s A2A)
Guardrails
Guardrails
Human-AI
Collaboration
Action plan
Agent to services protocol 
e.g., Model Context Protocol (MCP)
Execute
Memory
(Short- and long-term)
Internal data and tools
(Knowledge bases, enterprise systems, etc.) External tools
(Third-party databases,
web search, etc.)
Reasoning and chain 
of thought
(APls, sensors,
real world)
Human coworker
Human coworker
A
BE
DF
C
14
Capgemini Research Institute 2025
Rise of agentic AI: How trust is the key to human-AI collaboration
PAGE 15
What are the levels of 
autonomy in AI agents?  
Maturity level Capabilities Human involvement
Level 0: No agent involvement
Level 1: AI-assisted (automation ﬁrst)
Level 2: AI-augmented decision-making
Level 3: AI-integrated (process-centric AI)
Level 4: Independent operation 
(multi-agent AI teams)
Level 5: Fully autonomous 
(self-evolving systems)
Fully handled by humansNo additional capabilities
Deterministic systems that always produce 
identical outputs, given identical inputs
High human involvement; AI assists with 
predeﬁned workﬂows
AI agents support decision-making, provide 
recommendations, and enhance workﬂows
Semi-autonomous AI agents handle 
complex tasks 
AI agents coordinate tasks and make decisions 
to execute processes within strategic 
boundaries and escalate when needed
Fully autonomous execution of processes 
towards a speciﬁed goal within the 
deﬁned scope
Retains human control; AI aids in optimizing 
insights and processes
Human delegates authority in speciﬁc areas to the AI 
agents but is actively involved in management
Human delegates authority to AI agents, and the AI agents 
escalate to the human when it requires intervention
Human fully delegates execution authority to the AI agent, 
the only expected involvement by humans is for goal setting 
and monitoring, compliance and strategic governance  
We propose a six-point scale for the level of autonomy of AI 
agents – from Level 0 (No autonomy) to Level 5 (Full 
autonomy). This is modeled after the well-established 
autonomy levels of autonomous vehicles, as well as the 
autonomy levels of autonomous networks in telecom as 
defined by TM Forum – a global telecom industry association.
Levels of autonomy in AI agents
Source: Capgemini Research Institute analysis.
15
Capgemini Research Institute 2025
Rise of agentic AI: How trust is the key to human-AI collaboration
PAGE 16
01
By 2028 AI agents 
could generate $450 
billion 
16
Capgemini Research Institute 2025
Rise of agentic AI: How trust is the key to human-AI collaboration
PAGE 17
Our survey and analysis reveals that AI 
agents could generate around $450 billion 
in total economic value in the 14 countries 
surveyed by 2028.
• This includes both revenue uplift and cost savings driven 
by implementation of semi- to fully autonomous AI 
agents (Level 3 or higher autonomy). Figure 3 highlights 
several areas that will see these benefits.
• We assume that organizations with scaled 
implementation of AI agents will realize 50% of 
potential benefits and the remaining organizations will 
realize 10% of potential benefits.11
• Organizations with scaled implementation are 
projected to generate around $382 million (2.5% of 
annual revenue) on average over the next three years, 
while we expect others to generate around $76 million 
(0.5% of annual revenue). This applies to an average 
organization with $15 billion in annual revenues.
• We expect that surveyed organizations will collectively 
achieve $19 billion in gains over the next 12 months, 
with this figure projected to increase to $92 billion by 
the third year.
• If all organizations in the countries surveyed, regardless of 
level of implementation, achieve the anticipated benefits, 
they could unlock economic value of $3.6 trillion by 2028.
Over three in five organizations surveyed believe that agentic 
AI has transformative potential. A substantial 93% anticipate 
that organizations that have successfully scaled the 
implementation of AI agents within the next 12 months will 
achieve a competitive advantage. 
93%
believe that organizations that have successfully 
scaled AI agents within the next 12 months will achieve 
a competitive advantage
17
Capgemini Research Institute 2025
Rise of agentic AI: How trust is the key to human-AI collaboration
PAGE 18
Figure 3.
Agentic AI drives cost savings and revenue uplift
Source: Capgemini Research Institute analysis.
Joji Philip, Director, AI/ML Products at Ericsson, says, “AI 
agents hold immense promise, but we’re still in the early 
innings. Conservatively, we expect around 10% efficiency 
gains, with optimistic projections reaching 25% – but large-
scale validation is yet to come.”
Eric Pace, Head of AI at Cox Communication, says, “We are 
beginning to see measurable efficiency gains with AI agents 
delivering a 30% or more improvement in structured 
processes. For less standardized processes, though, the impact 
varies widely, depending on the complexity of the work and 
how effectively users engage with the technology.”
Elevate
Operational eﬃciency
Boost
Growth
Shortens product testing cycles, accelerates decision-making process, loan 
approvals, and claims processing, …
Automates high volume tasks (document review, task prioritization, calendar 
management, IT queries) – so human workers can focus on high-value tasks 
(client interaction, strategic planning)…
Standardizes workﬂows and outputs across teams, reduces manual errors, …
Reduce cycle time
Increase productivity
Improve accuracy and consistency
AI agents drive cost reduction and improve 
operational outcomes, with 24/7 availability
New protein structures, new molecular compound, drug discovery, new 
material, scientiﬁc simulation, brain computer interfaces (neuroscience), …
AI robots, autonomous cars, drones, AI wearables, energy optimizer, …
Continuous marketing campaigns, 24/7 sales rep, commercial loan analysis 
and agreement, recruitment, travel agent, coach, …
More scientiﬁc innovation
New products
New services available 24/7
AI agents can multiply knowledge and capability 
of your team, delivering added value
18
Capgemini Research Institute 2025
Rise of agentic AI: How trust is the key to human-AI collaboration
PAGE 19
To put our economic value estimate in context, we 
benchmark it against estimates from several leading 
organizations:
• Goldman Sachs predicts that Gen AI will drive a 6.1% rise in 
US GDP over the next decade.12 By 2028, this translates to 
around $540 billion in the US. 
• IDC forecasts that AI technologies overall will influence 
3.5% of global GDP by 2030.13 By 2028, this implies an 
impact of around $1.9 trillion globally. This encompasses 
all AI technologies, including agentic AI.
• MIT research estimates that a combination of AI 
capabilities could automate around one-fifth (slightly over 
20%) of value-added tasks.14 This compares well with our 
estimate that, 20% of all processes on average will be 
automated by AI agents at Level 3 or higher autonomy 
over the next three years.
While estimates of AI’s economic value vary significantly, 
there is general agreement that agentic AI will have 
significant impact. 
Figure 4.
AI agents present a $450 billion opportunity
Source: Capgemini Research Institute, Agentic AI, April 2025, N = 1,500 organizations; Capgemini Research Institute analysis.
2025–26 2026–27 2027–28 Total economic 
potential for surveyed 
organizations in three 
years (2025-28)
Total economic potential 
for all organizations in 
the surveyed countries 
in three years (2025-28)
19
46
92 157
456
Economic potential of agentic AI ($ billion)
19
Capgemini Research Institute 2025
Rise of agentic AI: How trust is the key to human-AI collaboration
PAGE 20
The CIO/chief data and digital officer at a US consumer 
health organization says: “AI agents have led to a 10–12% 
improvement in productivity, saving around 10 minutes per 
hour worked.”
61%
of organizations believe that agentic AI has 
 transformative potential
Eric Pace 
Head of AI,
Cox Communication
“We are beginning to see measurable 
efficiency gains with AI agents delivering a 
30% or more improvement in structured 
processes.” 
20
Capgemini Research Institute 2025
Rise of agentic AI: How trust is the key to human-AI collaboration
PAGE 21
21
Capgemini Research Institute 2025
Rise of agentic AI: How trust is the key to human-AI collaboration
PAGE 22
02
Adoption is underway 
but organizations don’t 
expect high autonomy 
22
Capgemini Research Institute 2025
Rise of agentic AI: How trust is the key to human-AI collaboration
PAGE 23
Current state of adoption of AI agents
Have started exploring 
the potential 
Considering experimenting with/deploying 
in the near future (six to 12 months)
Piloting some 
initial use cases 
Have implemented 
at partial scale 
Have implemented 
at scale Not interested in exploring
1%
30%
31%
12%
23%
2%
Figure 5.
14% of organizations are already deploying AI agents partially or at scale
Source: Capgemini Research Institute, Agentic AI, April 2025, N = 1,522 executives from corporate and data/AI functions.
Question asked: Which of the following statement best describes the current state of adoption of AI agents in your organization? 
Select one.
Note: “Partially scaled implementation” refers to the phase following a successful pilot stage, where several AI agents are available to a 
select group of users within a specific function, unit, or location. “At scale” refers to the phase following a successful partial scaling, where 
several AI agents are generally available within a function or where multiple functions have agents that are generally available.
More than one in three 
organizations are piloting 
or implementing AI 
agents
Currently, 23% of organizations have initiated AI agent pilot 
projects, while 14% have progressed to partial or full-scale 
implementation. About 30% are exploring AI agents, and 
another 31% are preparing for experimentation or 
deployment within the next six to 12 months. To verify the 
data, we reconfirmed the adoption level of agentic AI with a 
majority of survey respondents (900 out of 1500); we checked 
that they were referring specifically to AI agents, rather than 
AI/Gen AI assistants. This exercise showed similar results as 
the original survey, confirming strong adoption numbers 
globally and across sectors. More on this below.
Last year (May–June 2024), 10% of organizations in our 
research were using AI agents, signaling a leap of nearly 3.5x 
in a year. Analysis of data on generative AI adoption from our 
yearly research shows a similar pattern – at-scale deployments 
of Gen AI surged from 6% in 2023 to 24% in 2024 (see Figure 
6).15
23
Capgemini Research Institute 2025
Rise of agentic AI: How trust is the key to human-AI collaboration
PAGE 24
Figure 6.
The pace of AI agent adoption mirrors the rapid trajectory seen with generative AI
Source: Capgemini Research Institute, Generative AI executive survey, April 2023, N = 800 organizations; Generative AI executive 
survey, May–June 2024, N = 940 organizations; Agentic AI, April 2025, N = 1,500 organizations.
*The 2024 data for AI agents’ “usage” stood at 10%. Assuming that “usage” includes organizations piloting and scaling AI agents, 
and that their share in the population remains the same, we estimate that nearly 4% of organizations were scaling agentic AI 
in 2024.
A CIO at a US consumer health organization mentions: “We 
have around 70 simple agents working on specific processes. 
For example, agents that automate expense report approvals, 
analyze bills and receipts, monitor inventory and trigger 
replenishment, etc. The company started implementation a 
year ago and has realized several early benefits.”
Ericsson is pioneering a new prototype agent called “talk to 
your network” (TTYN), which uses agentic AI to transform 
how communication service providers (CSPs) interact with 
their networks. AI agents can understand goals, predict 
needs, and solve problems autonomously. They also enable 
natural language interactions with telecom infrastructure.16
Siemens is pivoting toward autonomous, orchestrated AI 
agents in its industrial automation. The organization has 
developed an orchestrator that acts like a digital craftsman, 
deploying a toolbox of specialized agents to solve complex 
tasks across the industrial value chain. These agents can 
understand user intent, learn continuously, collaborate with 
other agents (Siemens and third-party), and access external 
tools autonomously17 .
2023 2024
Year
Gen AI AI agents
2025
6%
24%
4%
36%
14%
Organizations implementing at scale 
(Full or partial)
4x
3.5x
The pace of AI agent adoption mirrors the 
rapid trajectory seen with generative AI
24
Capgemini Research Institute 2025
Rise of agentic AI: How trust is the key to human-AI collaboration
PAGE 25
Current state of implementation of AI agents April 2025 May 2025 (recontacted)
Not interested in exploring
Have started exploring 
1%
30%
31%
23%
12%
2%
1,500
0%
29%
31%
25%
13%
2%
901
Considering experimenting with/deploying in six to 12 months
Piloting initial use cases
Partially scaled implementation
Fully scaled implementation
Sample size
Lynn Comp, Head of Global Sales and GTM (AI Center of 
Excellence) at Intel, says: “AI agents represent a shift from 
relying solely on LLMs [large language models] to using a 
variety of specialized models for different tasks. AI has been a 
mature field for decades, with various modes such as data 
analytics, machine learning [ML], and deep learning. Now, AI 
agents can integrate models to provide optimal solutions.”
Anna Kopp, Digital Lead Germany at Microsoft, says: “We 
have two types of agents: those built by specialists, which 
users can access in Copilot and those created by users 
themselves. We currently have multiple pre-built agents. 
Examples include agents for tech support, employee self-
service, sales and agents as writing coach, travel planner, etc.”
We followed up with survey respondents to confirm whether 
they were referring specifically to AI agents, rather than AI/
Gen AI assistants. As shown in the table to the right, adoption 
numbers appear consistent. 
25
Capgemini Research Institute 2025
Rise of agentic AI: How trust is the key to human-AI collaboration
PAGE 26
Discussions with clients and industry experts sheds more 
light on the nuances of agentic AI adoption: Many 
organizations that claim to be implementing AI agents are 
deploying solutions with limited autonomy. As many as 85% 
of business processes are expected to be at low levels of 
autonomy in the next 12 months (see Figure 11). These 
systems operate with a high level of human involvement and 
14%
of organizations have progressed to partial or full-
scale implementation
oversight and are still largely supporting predefined 
workflows, rather than acting independently. In essence, 
these AI agents are slightly more advanced versions of AI/Gen 
AI assistants (such as ChatGPT or Microsoft Copilot), focused 
on tasks including content summarization, document review, 
and code generation. 
26
Capgemini Research Institute 2025
Rise of agentic AI: How trust is the key to human-AI collaboration
PAGE 27
Niraj Parihar
CEO, Insights and Data Global Business Line,
Capgemini
“Many still assume AI agents must be fully autonomous to create value – but in 
reality, they operate with varying levels of autonomy, interacting with humans and 
systems to automate tasks iteratively. We need to recognize AI agents as part of 
the team, not a replacement for it.”
27
Capgemini Research Institute 2025
Rise of agentic AI: How trust is the key to human-AI collaboration
PAGE 28
The table below summarizes the top processes from some of the industries with high potential for agentic AI:
Sector Industry examplesTop three processes where organizations 
see high potential to implement AI agents
Agents that monitor and improve autonomous and human-driven performance
Analyze vehicle performance in diverse urban, weather, and traﬃc conditions 
Provide AI-powered customer experiences tailored to individual preferences
Financial services
Retail
Mercedes-Benz is one of the ﬁrst automakers to adopt Google Cloud’s newly launched 
Automotive AI Agent, integrating it into their vehicles through the MBUX Virtual 
Assistant system. Powered by Gemini and Vertex AI, the intelligent agent is designed to 
facilitate natural, multimodal, and multilingual interactions, signiﬁcantly elevating the 
in-car user experience.¹⁸
Rolls-Royce is using ServiceNow’s AI Agent Orchestrator to coordinate multiple 
specialized AI agents to work together toward a common business goal. This 
orchestration would allow for end-to-end automation of complex workﬂows across 
departments such as IT, HR, and customer service.¹⁹
Capital One has deployed a concierge AI agent for its car-dealership clients to help 
consumers obtain information on cars and book test rides.²⁰
ANZ Bank is investigating the use of agentic AI to automate repetitive tasks, assist in 
complex decision-making, and integrate with existing systems to improve eﬃciency, 
and deliver more personalized services. ²¹
Walmart is preparing to introduce AI-powered shopping agents that act as 
personalized digital assistants for customers, oﬀering product discovery and 
recommendations, cart management, order tracking, and reordering frequently 
purchased items, etc.²²
Fraud alert agents that validate fraudulent activity and manage responses
Agents to monitor client portfolios in real time
Oﬀer personalized investment strategies
Agents that provide personalized shopping recommendations
Optimize dynamic pricing 
Monitor inventory in stores and warehouses to forecast demand and automate 
stock keeping unit (SKU) replenishment
Automotive
28
Capgemini Research Institute 2025
Rise of agentic AI: How trust is the key to human-AI collaboration
PAGE 29
Sector Industry examplesTop three processes where organizations 
see high potential to implement AI agents
Life sciences 
Drug discovery and development
Clinical trial optimization
Regulatory submissions
Lab automation and experiment planning 
Telecom
NVIDIA partnered with Novo Nordisk and the Danish Centre for AI Innovation (DCAI) 
to accelerate drug discovery through AI technologies. This collaboration leverages the 
Geﬁon AI supercomputer, operated by DCAI and powered by NVIDIA’s DGX SuperPOD, 
to create an AI factory capable of running large-scale drug discovery and agentic AI 
workloads. Novo Nordisk will utilize NVIDIA’s platforms for agentic workﬂows and to 
develop custom AI models that enhance early-stage research and clinical 
development.²³ 
SK Telecom is positioning its AI agent Aster (A*) as a cornerstone of future telecom 
innovation. Aster is designed to be proactive and context-aware, capable of 
anticipating user needs and assisting with everyday tasks such as suggesting recipes, 
managing schedules, and even helping with shopping lists.²⁴
Customer service automation
Network optimization 
Data-driven insights for customer behavior analysis and fraud detection
Process automation 
Manage the complexity of 5G networks
62% prefer to partner with solution providers, such as Salesforce, SAP , and ServiceNow, and system 
integrators to implement or tailor already available AI agents
29
Capgemini Research Institute 2025
Rise of agentic AI: How trust is the key to human-AI collaboration
PAGE 30
Discussion with 
Jason Gelman  
Director of Product Management – Vertex AI, Google Cloud
What are your views on the adoption 
of AI agents and bridging the gap 
between experimentation and 
production?
“There are significant challenges in taking agentic AI to 
production but all major AI providers are converging on 
the development of reasoning-capable agents, signaling 
that the ecosystem is maturing. Google has released an 
Agent Development Kit, and there are major 
advancements in reasoning models and tool integration, 
such as Gemini 2.5 Pro and Flash, which now enable 
faster, more capable agents.” 
 
What is your perspective on 
improving reliability and safety of 
AI models?
“While humans are about 97% accurate in data-
extraction tasks, AI is now approaching a similar 
level. However, users expect AI to be nearly 
infallible. Techniques such as retrieval-augmented 
generation (RAG) and controlled-context windows 
reduce hallucinations by anchoring model 
responses in verified data.”
What do you think about the growing 
importance of open-source models in 
the industry? 
“The industry is moving toward a mixed landscape, 
where both open and closed models coexist. Although 
open-source models offer flexibility, they often come 
with significant operational overheads, including 
hardware setup, driver management, and ongoing 
maintenance, making them impractical for many 
organizations. As models become smaller and more 
efficient, on-device AI will grow, further supporting 
open-source adoption in specific contexts. However, for 
cloud-based workloads, proprietary models still 
dominate in performance, reliability, and total cost of 
ownership [TCO].”
30
Capgemini Research Institute 2025
Rise of agentic AI: How trust is the key to human-AI collaboration
PAGE 31
31
Capgemini Research Institute 2025
Rise of agentic AI: How trust is the key to human-AI collaboration
PAGE 32
Figure 7.
Fewer than one in five organizations have a strategy and roadmap for implementing AI agents
Source: Capgemini Research Institute, Agentic AI, April 2025, N = 1,500 executives from corporate and data/AI functions.
Question asked: Does your organization have a strategy and a roadmap dedicated to the implementation of AI agents/agentic 
AI? Select one.
Our survey found that 16% of organizations have developed a 
strategy and roadmap to implement agentic AI (see Figure 7). 
Our survey did not explicitly ask whether these strategies 
(see Figure 7) were enterprise-wide, function-specific, or part 
of the organization’s data and AI strategy. As a result, the 
share of organizations with a group-wide or integrated AI 
agent strategy is likely lower than reported.business 
objectives.”
Organizations with an existing or developing strategy 
emphasize the following aspects of their strategic focus:
• Establish clear business cases and criteria for AI agent 
deployment
• Define appropriate levels of autonomy and decision-
making frameworks for AI agents
• Ensure robust data management and protection practices
• Plan for scalability and expansion across business 
functions
• Implement performance monitoring and optimization. 
The need for dedicated leadership to oversee AI agent 
initiatives is also a priority, with 26% appointing new leaders 
specifically for AI agents and 59% delegating this 
responsibility to existing AI or Gen AI leadership. 
Implementation strategy for AI agents
Don't have a strategy, but have multiple 
initiatives across functions to develop 
innovative solutions that can be scaled up
Currently formulating a strategy
Finalized a strategy and are 
preparing a roadmap for 
implementation
Strategy and roadmap are in place, and 
are implementing agentic AI initiatives
Don't have a strategy (either at 
organizational or functional level)
7%
39%
28%
10%
16%
32
Capgemini Research Institute 2025
Rise of agentic AI: How trust is the key to human-AI collaboration
PAGE 33
Lynn Comp
Head of Global Sales and GTM (AI Center of Excellence),  
Intel
“AI agents represent a shift from relying solely on LLMs [large language 
models] to using a variety of specialized models for different tasks.”
33
Capgemini Research Institute 2025
Rise of agentic AI: How trust is the key to human-AI collaboration
PAGE 34
Most (62%) prefer to partner with solution providers, such as 
Salesforce, SAP, and ServiceNow, and system integrators to 
implement or tailor AI agents that are already available as 
part of those product suites. The ready availability of in-built 
agents, pre-existing integrations with legacy systems, and 
fluency of staff to use these tools likely contribute to the 
preference.
The hybrid approach is the second-most preferred method, 
combining in-house development with external solutions to 
balance customization and scalability. One-third (33%) also 
Majority of organizations 
prefer partnerships with 
solution providers to 
deploy AI agents
prefer to develop proprietary AI agents. Criticality of processes, 
convenience, ease of integration with existing platforms, 
associated costs, and compliance all influence the decision of 
whether to build or buy. Using a combination of off-the-shelf 
agents, custom AI agents tailored to specific processes, and 
embedded agents integrated into existing platforms offers 
flexibility, optimized performance, and scalability.34 Prior to 
forming partnerships, organizations should thoroughly evaluate 
the vendor’s data sourcing, management practices, security 
protocols, and adherence to industry standards to avoid legal 
issues.
PepsiCo is accelerating its digital transformation by integrating 
Salesforce’s Agentforce, a platform of autonomous AI agents, 
into its global operations. PepsiCo will utilize AI agents to 
streamline critical operations, elevate customer service, and 
boost efficiency thereby enabling sales teams to concentrate on 
strategic growth and build stronger relationships with retailers. 
This collaboration will allow PepsiCo to streamline GTM and B2B 
processes and elevate customer service through harmonized data 
and intelligent AI agents.35
34
Capgemini Research Institute 2025
Rise of agentic AI: How trust is the key to human-AI collaboration
PAGE 35
Figure 8.
Three in five organizations are looking to partner with solution providers and system integrators to 
implementor tailor available AI agents
Source: Capgemini Research Institute, Agentic AI, April 2025, N = 900 executives from data/AI functions. 
Question asked: What is your organization’s current build vs. buy strategy for implementing agentic AI solutions? 
Respondents were allowed to select multiple options.
Cisco has partnered with Mistral AI, an AI model developer, 
to enhance its customer experience (CX) offering through 
agentic AI capabilities. This partnership intends to embed 
AI agents into Cisco’s collaboration and contact-center 
solutions. By using Mistral’s open-weight LLMs, Cisco could 
enable real-time, intelligent interactions between 
businesses and their customers.36
Honeywell and Google Cloud have partnered to address 
labor shortages and upskill workers in the industrial sector. 
Honeywell’s Internet of Things (IoT) platform, Honeywell 
Forge, will be integrated with Google Cloud’s Gemini AI on 
Vertex AI, enabling AI agents to connect with industrial 
assets, people, and processes. These agents will assist 
engineers and technicians by automating tasks, speeding 
up maintenance, and reducing project design cycles, and 
will harness multimodal capabilities to process text, images, 
video, and sensor data. 37
Organizations' build vs. buy preferences for agentic solutions
Partner with solution providers (e.g., SAP, Salesforce, 
among others) and system integrators to 
implement/tailor available AI agents
Adopt a hybrid approach, combining in-house 
development with external solutions to 
balance customization and scalability
Develop proprietary AI agents 
entirely in-house 
Buy oﬀ-the-shelf AI agents 
Currently evaluating options, with 
no clear development strategy 
62%
53%
33%
18%
1%
35
Capgemini Research Institute 2025
Rise of agentic AI: How trust is the key to human-AI collaboration
PAGE 36
Lynn Comp, Head of Global Sales and GTM (AI Center of 
Excellence) at Intel explains:“Large enterprises, particularly 
in regulated industries, are cautious, preferring to develop 
AI agents internally, rather than relying on third-party 
solutions. Since most AI agent platforms are still evolving, 
organizations prefer internal control until the market 
matures.” 
Most (88%) data/AI executives express a preference for 
utilizing these models in low-risk use cases that have lower 
runtime costs but offer similar performance. However, nearly 
half (49%) highlight that these models lack the capability to 
address legal, regulatory, and privacy concerns. A further 
38% adopt a neutral stance. Approaching half (45%) of 
Europe-based executives indicate that they would consider 
non-European solutions, provided they are hosted on Europe-
based servers and all data is stored within Europe. 
Consumption-based, platform-based, and license-based 
models are the preferred pricing models among 
organizations for agentic AI solutions.
Figure 9.
Over half of organizations prefer consumption-based pricing for AI models within AI agents
Source: Capgemini Research Institute, Agentic AI, April 2025, N = 834 from data/AI executives whose 
organizations prefer to buy agents or partner with solution providers to tailor AI agents.
 
Question asked: What kind of pricing model would your organization prefer for agentic AI solutions? 
Respondents were allowed to select multiple options.
Preferred pricing models
Consumption-based pricing (based on how much of a service 
is used; e.g., price per token, no. of tokens handled)
Platform-based pricing 
(ﬂat amount for the entire platform)
License-based pricing
(pay per user/license)
Tier-based pricing (cost of the application increases 
as more features/capabilities are added)
Outcome-based pricing (based on value 
generated by the organization)
55%
43%
37%
33%
17%
36
Capgemini Research Institute 2025
Rise of agentic AI: How trust is the key to human-AI collaboration
PAGE 37
Over half of organizations prefer consumption-based pricing for AI models within AI agents
Mark Oost
Vice President, AI and Generative AI Group Offer Lead,  
Capgemini
“This wave of transformation is not about adding AI agents to workflows – it’s 
about shifting from isolated use cases to end-to-end processes and rethinking 
workflows entirely.”
37
Capgemini Research Institute 2025
Rise of agentic AI: How trust is the key to human-AI collaboration
PAGE 38
Customer service, IT, and 
sales could see greater 
adoption of AI agents 
Customer services and support, IT, and sales are the 
functions where most executives predict that AI agents will 
be actively performing at least one process or sub-process 
daily within the next 12 months. These functions often 
involve high volumes of interaction, require responsiveness 
over precision, and depend on contextual, conversational 
engagement. As a result, they operate effectively with non-
deterministic, probabilistic agents that are context-aware 
and highly adaptable. 
The use of AI agents is expanding to operations, product 
design, R&D, marketing, and finance, with expectations of 
performing at least one process or sub-process daily within 
the next one to three years.
Dr. Suraj Srinivasan Philip J. Stomberg Professor of Business 
Administration and Chair of the MBA Elective Curriculum, 
Harvard Business School, explains: “The fastest wins are in 
functions where processes are well-defined and outcomes 
are known and measurable, like customer service and 
sales. AI agents will also enhance creative processes. In 
inherently creative functions like marketing, AI agents can 
simulate synthetic personas, which, when validated with 
real user data, can effectively mirror real people. In R&D, 
agents can help design and test product prototypes, 
create new molecular structures, and accelerate pace of 
innovation.”
The chief AI officer at a multinational engineering 
organization says: “Our AI agents are evolving along 
two key paths: externally, as intelligent advisors 
helping technicians navigate complex machine manuals 
and perform actions; and internally, transforming from 
simple HR chatbots into proactive assistants that 
handle tasks such as leave approvals and workflow 
automation.” 
 
Google launched Project Mariner, an advanced AI web-
browsing agent developed by DeepMind that can buy 
tickets, order groceries, or fill out forms on the internet. 
By engaging in a conversation with the AI, users can 
delegate these tasks entirely to it.38
Crédit Agricole Bank Polska partnered with Deviniti to 
enhance customer service efficiency by deploying an AI 
agent. The agent performed smart classification, 
emotional tone detection, automated responses, and 
workflow automation. As a result, the bank achieved a 
50% reduction in document-processing time; saved over 
750 hours per month; improved customer satisfaction 
and team morale; and accelerated the resolution of 
complex cases.39
Dr. Suraj Srinivasan
Philip J. Stomberg Professor of Business
Administration and Chair of the MBA Elective Curriculum,
Harvard Business School
“The fastest wins are in 
functions where processes 
are well-defined and 
outcomes are known and 
measurable, like customer 
service and sales. AI agents 
will also enhance creative 
processes.”
38
Capgemini Research Institute 2025
Rise of agentic AI: How trust is the key to human-AI collaboration
PAGE 39
Figure 10.
Within the next three years, a large majority of organizations will have AI agents deployed in customer service, IT, and sales
Source: Capgemini Research Institute, Agentic AI, April 2025, N = 1,500 executives from corporate and data/AI functions.
Question asked: Which functions will have one or more AI agents actively performing at least one or more processes / sub-processes on a daily basis?
Business functions in which organizations expect AI agents to manage at least one process or sub-process daily
55%
28%30%
31%56%
33%51%
31%47%
36%39%
33%36%
33%29%
33%30%
28%
28%
25%
27%23%
21%
22% 21%
21%
20%
17%
20%
14%
11%
58%
Average
Customer services and support
IT
Sales
Operations
Marketing and communications
Product design/ R&D/support
Finance
Manufacturing
Logistics
Human resources
Risk management
Corporate strategy
Legal and compliance
Sustainability
In 12 months In 1-3 years
39
Capgemini Research Institute 2025
Rise of agentic AI: How trust is the key to human-AI collaboration
PAGE 40
Vishal Singhvi, Director, Strategic Initiatives (Gen AI) at 
Microsoft, says: “We see AI adoption unfolding in four 
phases. First, organizations focus on internal productivity by 
automating simple tasks with Gen AI. Next comes enhancing 
CX through personalized, AI-powered interactions. The third 
phase is where agentic AI automates workflows, with or 
without human oversight. The final phase – still a couple of 
years away – is the move toward scalable, general-purpose 
AI across the enterprise.” 
 
Susan Emerson, Senior VP, AI Product at Salesforce, says: 
“Across industries, agentic AI is moving the opportunity 
beyond productivity gains to fundamentally reinventing core 
business processes to deliver measurable impact, 
transformed customer experiences, and new operating 
models.”
Organizations don’t 
expect high levels of 
autonomy 
Over the next 12 months, we expect AI agents with Level 3 
autonomy or higher to manage 15% of processes and sub-
processes in each business function. This will rise to 25% 
within the next one to three years. Fully autonomous AI 
agents (Level 5) are expected to handle around 4% of 
business processes within three years. This level of autonomy 
may apply to majorly well-scoped processes. While an 
in-process human-in-the-loop may not be present in these 
cases, strategic oversight is maintained through clearly 
defined goals, scope of execution, and robust technological 
guardrails to ensure safe and reliable execution.  
 
Organizations do not foresee a significant increase in the 
autonomy of AI agents. While organizations are not 
prioritizing full autonomy, AI agents can still deliver significant 
value at intermediate levels of autonomy. As a result, in the 
next 12 months, we expect AI agents to make 6% of day-to-
day decisions, increasing to 8% in one to three years. 
Joji Philip, Director, AI/ML Products at Ericsson, says: “AI 
agents are undeniably accelerating the telecom sector’s 
journey toward higher levels of network autonomy. Based on 
our prototypes and proofs of concept [PoC], we foresee it 
reaching Level 3 or 4 autonomy within the next two to three 
years. While full autonomy (L5) may still require caution due 
to the critical nature of communication networks, the 
trajectory is clear.”
Susan Emerson, Senior VP, AI Product at Salesforce, says, 
“Trust in agentic AI grows through experience. By starting 
with human-in-the-loop models and observing consistent 
accuracy, transparency, and adherence to guardrails and 
instructions, organizations built the confidence to embrace 
higher levels of autonomy for both internal employee and 
external customer experiences.”
Eric Pace, Head of AI at Cox Communication, says, “We’re 
taking a measured approach to AI autonomy. While fully 
autonomous agents hold promise, they’re not yet in 
production at scale due to ongoing concerns around trust, 
process, and system maturity. For now, most of our advanced 
agentic systems remain in pilot or proof-of-concept stages, 
with broader deployment planned as our confidence and 
capabilities continue to grow.”
58%
of business functions are likely to have AI agents 
handling at least one process or sub-process daily 
within 3 years
40
Capgemini Research Institute 2025
Rise of agentic AI: How trust is the key to human-AI collaboration
PAGE 41
A risk director at a large, global banking group says:“Today, AI 
agents are adept at handling basic Level 1 and Level 2 
queries. Soon, they’ll take on Level 3 interactions, such as 
fraud detection. Long-term, we envision AI agents becoming 
capable of managing even the most serious customer issues 
autonomously.” 
 
Much like autonomous vehicles or networks, moving to high/
full autonomy (L4/L5) could be challenged by various factors, 
including ethical, attitudinal, and regulatory issues. We 
explore this in the following chapters.
Figure 11.
By 2028, one-quarter of business processes will be handled by AI agents with Level 3 or higher autonomy
Source: Capgemini Research Institute, Agentic AI, April 2025, N = 600 executives from corporate functions.
Question asked: How would you prefer to allocate tasks/processes within your business function in a human-agent team in 
terms of autonomy? 
*Figures may not sum to 100% due to rounding.
25%
of processes within a business function are expected 
to be handled by AI agents with Level 3 or higher 
autonomy by 2028
In the next 
12 months
In the next 
1–3 years
45% 23% 17% 9% 4%
15%
2%
30% 25% 21% 14% 7% 4%
25%
(No agent involvement
in tasks/processes)
Level 0 Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Level 4 Level 5
(Semi-autonomous 
processes with some 
human intervention)
(Highly autonomous 
processes; requires 
strategic oversight)
(Fully autonomous processes 
with agents handling 
end-to-end execution)
41
Capgemini Research Institute 2025
Rise of agentic AI: How trust is the key to human-AI collaboration
PAGE 42
Function Industry examplesTop three processes where organizations 
see high potential to implement AI agents
Corporate strategy
Market and competitive intelligence
Scenario planning and decision-tree analysis
Devising strategy and roadmap
Financial services
Marketing
BlackRock has launched an AI platform named Asimov, marking a major 
step in integrating AI agents into its core investment strategy and market 
intelligence operations. Asimov is already operational within BlackRock’s 
fundamental equity division and is leveraged for real-time market analysis, 
competitor intelligence and scenario modeling.²⁵  
Azumo builds autonomous agents that assist in strategic planning, 
workﬂow automation, and cross-functional decision-making.²⁶
Wells Fargo has deployed interacting AI agents (some built on 
open-source frameworks like LangGraph) to re-underwrite 15 years of 
archived loan documents and automate complex document analysis and 
compliance checks.²⁷
Wealthfront uses AI agents to automatically manage portfolio, optimize 
tax strategies and adjust investments based on user goals.²⁸
Shopify is integrating autonomous AI agents across its marketing and 
operations to reduce human dependency and boost eﬃciency.²⁹
Fintech ﬁrms Robinhood and Arta Finance are using AI agents for 
investment research, enabling faster analysis of ﬁnancial data and 
generation of investment insights.³⁰
Financial planning and budgeting
Fraud detection and compliance auditing
Investment analysis and portfolio management
Customer service and support
Advertising, promotions, and content marketing
Thought leadership/market research
The table below summarizes the top processes from some of the corporate functions with high potential for agentic AI:
42
Capgemini Research Institute 2025
Rise of agentic AI: How trust is the key to human-AI collaboration
PAGE 43
Function Industry examplesTop three processes where organizations 
see high potential to implement AI agents
Technology/IT/data
Software code generation and testing
Data management, quality, and reporting
IT infrastructure and cybersecurity
Innovation/R&D/design
Microsoft has unveiled the GitHub AI Agent, a fully autonomous coding 
assistant designed to streamline software development. This AI agent can 
independently execute complex workﬂows and perform asynchronous 
code testing.³¹
 
World Economic Forum’s Centre for Cybersecurity is working with over 
170 partners including those in manufacturing, oil and gas, and energy to 
deploy agentic AI for cyber resilience. These AI agents autonomously 
identify vulnerabilities, patch systems, and coordinate across networks to 
prevent breaches.³²
PTC Inc. and Microsoft are collaborating to help manufacturers 
integrate AI agents across their value chains by developing a 
multi-agentic model and enterprise data framework within Microsoft 
Fabric. The agents would autonomously access and analyze data from 
PLM (Product Lifecycle Management), ERP (Enterprise Resource 
Planning), and MES (Manufacturing Execution Systems) and generate 
insights and trigger actions across departments.³³
Product design and prototyping
Research and ideation
Product testing and validation
43
Capgemini Research Institute 2025
Rise of agentic AI: How trust is the key to human-AI collaboration
PAGE 44
Discussion with 
Daniel Vassilev  
Co-Founder and Co-CEO, Relevance AI (a low-/no-code  
platform that builds AI agents and multi-agent teams)
What is the potential of AI agents?
“The agentic AI market could be a trillion-dollar 
opportunity. AI agents resemble human systems more than 
software systems. Properly trained and implemented, AI 
agents can achieve human-quality work.”
Could you highlight the benefits of 
integrating AI agents with human 
oversight?
“Approvals, escalations, and collaboration between humans 
and AI are key to successful deployment. Integrating AI with 
human workflows drives better outcomes.”
How should organizations decide 
whether to “build” or “buy” AI agents?
“Organizations should buy AI agents for internal process 
automation to avoid the complexities and overheads of 
building and maintaining them. They should build AI 
agents for integrating into their products, using 
engineering frameworks to avoid vendor lock-in. Building 
high-performing agents requires significant expertise. 
Non-technical teams often require approval processes 
and interfaces, which adds complexity. All agents must 
be autonomous, capable of making decisions and acting.” 
What are your views on the 
potential of AI agents?
“Productivity will no longer be limited by labor 
availability. AI agents will provide almost unlimited 
capacity, constrained only by data-center size and 
energy production.”
44
Capgemini Research Institute 2025
Rise of agentic AI: How trust is the key to human-AI collaboration
PAGE 45
45
Capgemini Research Institute 2025
Rise of agentic AI: How trust is the key to human-AI collaboration
PAGE 46
Limited trust and knowledge 
impede autonomous AI 
adoption03
46
Capgemini Research Institute 2025
Rise of agentic AI: How trust is the key to human-AI collaboration
PAGE 47
Trust in AI agents to 
manage large enterprise 
use cases is declining   
Figure 12 below highlights that, while 23% of organizations 
report relatively high trust in AI agents, most (60%) do not 
fully trust AI agents to manage tasks and processes 
autonomously. These trust levels appear similar to people’s 
trust in self-driving vehicles – a recent study found that 13% 
of US drivers would trust riding in self-driving vehicles, while 
61% still report being afraid more than 54% who feared self-
driving cars in 2021.40 Studies report that those already using 
AI agents have trust issues: 47% believe they lack emotional 
intelligence; 40% feel uncomfortable submitting 
AI-generated work; and 34% consider AI output inferior to 
manual output.41
Stanford’s 2025 AI Index Report highlights that AI is past the 
experimental stage, yet societal confidence in its safety, 
fairness, and accountability remains fragile.42 According to 
the report, in 2024 there was a three-percentage-point 
decrease in those who trust organizations using AI to protect 
their personal data, and a two-percentage-point decrease in 
respondents’ trust that AI systems are unbiased and 
discrimination-free. 
In 2025, Uber drivers have voiced growing frustration and 
distrust toward AI agents used by the company, particularly in 
areas like deactivation, job allocation, and customer dispute 
resolution. Many drivers reported being deactivated without 
explanation, often based on algorithmic decisions or 
customer complaints that were not properly investigated. 
The appeals process, largely handled by in-app chatbots, left 
drivers feeling powerless and financially vulnerable. 96% of 
uber drivers said their deactivation was unfair.43
Trung Nguyen, Machine Learning Lead at Jira AI, Atlassian, 
says: “Building trustworthy AI agents means looking beyond 
accuracy by evaluating hallucination rates, factual 
reliability, and safety in handling sensitive content. 
Continuous monitoring and user feedback loops are 
essential, especially when direct access to user data is 
limited.”
Dr. Walter Sun, SVP, Global Head of AI at SAP, asserts “Trust is 
a major hurdle. Businesses need confidence in AI systems 
before granting them any level of autonomy. One way to 
build trust is starting with what I call ‘read-only’ AI 
implementations, where AI provides recommendations, but 
humans make all final decisions.”
Dr. Walter Sun
SVP, Global Head of AI,
SAP
“Trust is a major hurdle. 
Businesses need confidence in 
AI systems before granting 
them any level of autonomy. 
One way to build trust is 
starting with what I call 
‘read-only’ AI 
implementations, where AI 
provides recommendations, 
but humans make all final 
decisions.”
47
Capgemini Research Institute 2025
Rise of agentic AI: How trust is the key to human-AI collaboration
PAGE 48
Almost half (47%) of organizations in the implementation 
phase report above average level of trust in AI agents, 
compared with 37% that are still in the exploration phase. 
Figure 12.
60% of organizations do not fully trust AI agents 
Source: Capgemini Research Institute, Agentic AI, April 2025, N = 1,500 executives from corporate and data/AI functions.
Question asked: On a scale of 1 to 7, where 1 = “Do not trust at all” and 7 = “Completely trust,” please rate your overall trust in 
AI agents.
Share of organizations that trust AI agents
1 – Do not trust at all 4 – Neutral 7 – Trust completely
0% 11% 19% 30% 23% 11% 6%
This strong correlation between trust and 
implementation confirms that trust plays a crucial 
role in the adoption of AI agents.
48
Capgemini Research Institute 2025
Rise of agentic AI: How trust is the key to human-AI collaboration
PAGE 49
Vice President, Data and AI Group Offer Leader, 
Capgemini
“Building trust in AI agents requires more than accuracy. It demands 
transparency in decision-making, safeguards against unintended behaviors, 
and clarity on human oversight.”
Sergey Patsko
49
Capgemini Research Institute 2025
Rise of agentic AI: How trust is the key to human-AI collaboration
PAGE 50
Figure 13.
Nearly half of organizations implementing AI agents report above average level of trust in their abilities
Source: Capgemini Research Institute, Agentic AI, April 2025, N = 1,500 executives from corporate and data/AI functions.
Note: Respondents rated their level of trust in AI agents on a scale of 1 to 7. Ratings of 1–3 indicate below average trust, 
4 is average, and 5–7 represent above average trust.
Share of organizations with their level of trust in AI agents, by current state of implementation
Average
31%
32%
37%
27%
30%
44%
33%
20%
47%
Exploratory phase Pilot phase Implementation phase
Below average level of trust
Above average level of trust
Moreover, trust is declining. In 2024, 43% of executives 
expressed confidence in fully autonomous AI agents for 
enterprise applications. However, this percentage has 
decreased to 22% this year. Eroding trust hinders 
organizations from granting increased control or autonomy 
to AI agents. Figure 14 shows declining trust levels in agentic 
AI across actions ranging from sending professional mails to 
analyzing data. The decline in trust even as agentic AI 
adoption is increasing hints that this lack of trust is born out 
of experience rather than out of fear or uncertainty.
22%
of executives trust fully autonomous AI agents for 
enterprise applications, down from 43% in 2024
50
Capgemini Research Institute 2025
Rise of agentic AI: How trust is the key to human-AI collaboration
PAGE 51
Figure 14.
Trust in AI agents has decreased since 2024
Source: Capgemini Research Institute, Generative AI executive survey, May–June 2024, N = 1,031 executives; Capgemini 
Research Institute, Agentic AI, April 2025, N = 1,500 executives from corporate and data/AI functions.
Question asked: What are your views on the application of AI agents in your organization? Rate on a scale of 1–7, where 1= 
strongly disagree and 7= strongly agree, or unsure/don’t know. 
Organizations are highly 
concerned about ethical 
and safety risks – but fail 
to act    
The lack of trust in AI agents is aggravated by ethical and 
safety concerns, with nearly two in five executives believing 
that the risks of implementing AI agents outweigh the 
benefits.
Organizations are acutely aware of risks, including escalating 
privacy and security concerns; potential for unintentional 
harm and bias; a lack of transparency in AI decision-making 
(the AI “black-box” effect); and the desuetude of human 
skills. These risks all stand against permitting higher levels of 
autonomy. 
The decline in trust is not limited to AI agents; it extends to AI 
and Gen AI as well. Since 2023, concerns around Gen AI have 
either increased or remained constant. Worries about bias in 
Gen AI affected 68% of organizations in 2024, up from 36% in 
2023.44,45 Despite being aware of these risks, many 
organizations have yet to mitigate them. 
Share of executives agreeing to the below statements
43%
27%
64%
50%
64%
52%
71%
57%
50%
57%
39%
52%
41%
63%
47%
We can trust a fully autonomous AI agent for 
enterprise use, overall
AI agents will signiﬁcantly improve customer 
service, leading to improved satisfaction 
AI agents would help me focus 
on more value-added activities
AI agents will help us drive higher levels 
of automation in our workﬂows
I would trust an AI agent to send a 
professional email on my behalf
The potential of AI agents to improve 
productivity outweigh its risks
I would trust an AI agent to analyze 
and synthesize data for me 
June 2024 April 2025
51
Capgemini Research Institute 2025
Rise of agentic AI: How trust is the key to human-AI collaboration
PAGE 52
In a recent survey, nearly 48% of respondents expressed 
concern about the ethical implications of deploying AI 
agents. Trust and safety remain among the most significant 
barriers to widespread adoption.46
The heightened risk may also arise from a fragmented and 
inconsistent AI regulatory landscape. There is no standard 
definition across different jurisdictions. Emerging AI 
regulations take various legal forms, including statutes, 
executive orders, and expansions of existing regulatory 
frameworks. Some are legally binding, while others are not; 
some are sector-specific while others apply across sectors. 
Some regulations are enforced, others serve merely as 
guidelines.47
The head of responsible AI and AI strategy at a UK-based 
retail and commercial bank says: “We’re still in the 
experimental phase with agentic AI, and meaningful ROI is 
likely six to 12 months away. The risks are real, especially 
the potential for cascading errors if one agent’s 
hallucination is passed to another. In a regulated 
environment like banking, the implementation of agents 
demands caution, robust validation, and time.”
Figure 15.
Few organizations are actively mitigating the risk of implementing agentic AI
Source: Capgemini Research Institute, Agentic AI, April 2025, N = 1,500 executives from corporate and data/AI functions. 
Question asked: 1. What are the top five primary risks associated while using AI agents? 2. Which of these risks does your 
organization working on mitigating?
Organizations' top concerns and mitigation plans
34%
51%
29%
48%
28%
48%
24%
46%
18%
43%
19%
39%
22% 22% 20%
39%
23%
38% 38% 38%
Privacy 
concerns
Risk of 
unwanted bias
Skill 
degradation
Legal 
risks
Job 
displacement
Safety risks Lack of 
transparency Lack of humility Overconﬁdence in 
AI-generated output
Design ﬂaws
Share of organizations concerned about the risk Share of organizations taking active measures to mitigate the risk
52
Capgemini Research Institute 2025
Rise of agentic AI: How trust is the key to human-AI collaboration
PAGE 53
Anne-Violaine Monnié
“AI agents should be used to enhance humans’ ability to make decisions and 
take actions, not to replace them. We need to keep humans in meaningful 
control of AI agents.”
Group AI Ethics Leader, 
Capgemini
53
Capgemini Research Institute 2025
Rise of agentic AI: How trust is the key to human-AI collaboration
PAGE 54
Half of organizations 
have insufficient 
knowledge of the 
capabilities of AI agents    
In addition to declining trust and escalating risk, half of 
organizations state that gaps in knowledge significantly 
impede their deployment of highly autonomous agents. 
Furthermore, only one-third clearly comprehend where AI 
agents should be preferred to Gen AI, AI/ML, or process 
automation. This may result in suboptimal deployment and 
underutilization of the technology.
A chief AI officer at a federal governmental healthcare service 
says: “Start by deciding whether you want to build or buy. 
That determines your investment strategy and talent needs. 
Don’t chase the ‘cool’ use cases. Focus on small, high-impact 
wins that deliver real ROI with minimal effort. If you’re not 
ready to invest in top-tier talent, don’t settle – go with third-
party solutions instead. Success comes from aligning 
investment, talent, and use case selection with clear 
business value.”
Figure 16.
Only one-third of organizations understand where to employ AI agents 
Source: Capgemini Research Institute, Agentic AI, April 2025, N = 1,500 executives from corporate and data/AI functions.
Organizations' understanding of AI agents
Clear understanding of 
where AI, Gen AI, and AI 
agents are best applied
Well aware of diﬀerence 
between AI, Gen AI, and 
AI agents
Suﬃcient knowledge and 
understanding of AI agents 
and their capabilities
53%
39% 34%
54
Capgemini Research Institute 2025
Rise of agentic AI: How trust is the key to human-AI collaboration
PAGE 55
Organizations fall 
short of technology 
readiness    
Data readiness: 
Fewer than one in five organizations report high 
maturity in any aspect of data-readiness. Only 9% say 
they are fully prepared in terms of data integration and 
interoperability, while only 13% report strong readiness 
in data monitoring and lifecycle management. Similarly, 
maturity levels are low in data quality, availability, 
volume, infrastructure, governance, and security. Many 
organizations still face foundational hurdles to 
effective AI deployment. Rashmi Shetty, Strategy & 
Transformation, Digital Technology, Industrial Energy 
Technology at Baker Hughes says, “Agentic AI holds 
transformational potential—this could be the iPhone 
moment for artificial intelligence. To seize this 
opportunity, foundational elements must be in place: 
robust processes, quality data, scalable infrastructure, 
and the right talent. The real challenge lies in creating 
a convergence of those elements so we can maximize 
value for the organization.”
Figure 17.
Most organizations lack data readiness
Source: Capgemini Research Institute, Agentic AI, April 2025, N = 900 executives from data/AI functions.
Organizations rated their maturity on a scale from 1 to 7: 1–2 means very low, 3 is below average, 4 is average, 5 is above average, and 6–7 is very high.
Note: 
Data governance and security: Policies for data management, compliance, and protection against unauthorized access
Data infrastructure: Robust storage and processing systems that can scale with data demands
Data volume: Adequate amount of data to train and validate AI models
Data quality and availability: Clean, accurate, and accessible data
Data monitoring and lifecycle management: Tools for real-time data quality tracking and processes for data collection, storage, and deletion
Data integration and interoperability: Ability to combine data from various sources and ensure seamless data exchange
Share of organizations by level of maturity across the following dimensions
Average
Data governance and security
Data infrastructure
Data volume
Data quality and availability
Data monitoring and lifecycle management
Data integration and interoperability
Very low maturity Below average maturity Average maturity Above average maturity Very high maturity
2% 15% 31% 34% 18%
6% 24% 41% 29%
16% 25% 36% 24%
8% 31% 39% 22%
4% 18% 34% 32% 13%
1% 23% 35% 30% 10%
5% 20% 37% 29% 9%
55
Capgemini Research Institute 2025
Rise of agentic AI: How trust is the key to human-AI collaboration
PAGE 56
Franck GREVERIE
“If your data isn’t ready for AI, your business isn’t ready for AI.”
Chief Technology and Portfolio Officer,  
Head of Global Business Lines,
Capgemini
56
Capgemini Research Institute 2025
Rise of agentic AI: How trust is the key to human-AI collaboration
PAGE 57
AI infrastructure maturity:  
Over four in five organizations report low-to-medium 
maturity across dimensions such as computing, integration, 
orchestration, fine-tuning, and cybersecurity.
A VP of data science and AI at a software development 
organization highlights: “Enterprises face key challenges in 
scaling AI, such as fragmented data silos hindering unified 
decision-making, while limited system performance restricts 
real-time insights. Trust and adoption depend on delivering 
reliable, business-relevant outputs. And without high-
quality data, even the best models fail.”
Vishal Singhvi, Director, Strategic Initiatives (Gen AI) at 
Microsoft, says: “Organizations that invest in strong data 
foundations and effective change management are seeing 
10%+ revenue uplift through agentic AI by expanding share 
of wallet with existing customers and unlocking new market 
segments.”
Figure 18.
Only one in five organizations has a mature AI infrastructure
Source: Capgemini Research Institute, Agentic AI, April 2025, N = 900 executives from data/AI functions.
The total may not equal 100% due to rounding.
Share of organizations by level of AI maturity across the following dimensions
Computing
Integration
Orchestration 
Fine-tuning
Cybersecurity
Low maturity Average maturity High maturity
26% 52% 22%
32% 50% 18%
35% 47% 18%
29% 55% 16%
41% 45% 14%
28% 51% 20%
Average
82%
of organizations report low-to-medium AI 
infrastructure maturity
57
Capgemini Research Institute 2025
Rise of agentic AI: How trust is the key to human-AI collaboration
PAGE 58
Susan Emerson
“Trust in agentic AI grows through experience.”
Joji Philip
“Based on our prototypes and proofs of concept 
[PoC], we foresee it reaching Level 3 or 4 
autonomy within the next two to three years.”
Senior VP, AI Product, 
Salesforce
Director, AI/ML Products
Ericsson
58
Capgemini Research Institute 2025
Rise of agentic AI: How trust is the key to human-AI collaboration
PAGE 59
Discussion with 
Preetha Sekharan  
VP, Digital Incubator – Applied AI and Transformation,  
Unum (an American insurer)
What are some of the use cases 
currently being deployed in your 
organization? 
We prioritize high-impact use cases where AI can 
deliver measurable value for our customers, 
particularly in complex, people-intensive areas to help 
our employees with routine tasks. We’re targeting 
simple, transactional use cases to test feasibility and 
build confidence. For our initial pilots, we’re focusing 
on standardized processes with minimal variability to 
help ensure smoother implementation and more 
consistent outcomes. 
 
What are the major challenges in 
implementing AI agents? 
The biggest challenge is setting guardrails and deploying 
them consistently across our organization. Another major 
challenge is the lack of standardized language across the 
insurance industry. Terminology can vary significantly 
between companies and even departments, making it 
difficult for AI agents to interpret intent accurately. Agents 
need to be adaptable, but there must be clear triggers for 
human intervention. For example, we do not allow an AI 
agent to make certain significant decisions autonomously or 
interact directly with a customer. 
 
How do you expect AI agents to 
shape the future of work?
AI works side by side with our employees, 
allowing them to focus on where they can deliver 
most value. Employees could evolve into 
generalist orchestrators, coordinating with 
specialized AI agents to execute tasks, especially 
in fields such as software development. Human 
roles will focus more time on higher-level 
thinking, creative problem-solving, and strategic 
orchestration, supported by AI. 
59
Capgemini Research Institute 2025
Rise of agentic AI: How trust is the key to human-AI collaboration
PAGE 60
Humans and AI agents can 
collaborate to deliver greater 
benefits 04
60
Capgemini Research Institute 2025
Rise of agentic AI: How trust is the key to human-AI collaboration
PAGE 61
A new hybrid workforce 
is emerging    
In 12 months’ time, we expect over 60% of organizations to 
have human-agent teams in which AI agents serve as 
subordinates/tools or enhancements to human capabilities. 
In one to three years, AI agents are likely to evolve into 
members within human-supervised teams. Itai Asseo, Head 
of Incubation and Brand Strategy (AI Research) at Salesforce, 
says: “Human-AI interaction patterns are still taking shape 
and a seamless way to interact with AI agents is yet to 
surface. Just as the shift from BlackBerry to iPhone in early 
days of the smartphone era redefined how we engage with 
technology, the sooner humans can intuitively interact with 
AI agents, the faster will be the adoption of agentic AI and 
its subsequent benefits.”
Figure 19.
AI agents are likely to evolve to members in human-supervised teams 
Source: Capgemini Research Institute, Agentic AI, April 2025, N = 1,500 executives from corporate and data/AI functions.
Question asked: Which of the following human-agent collaboration models is likely to evolve in your team/function in the next 12 months and 
in one to three years? Please select the model that will apply to most AI agents for each timeframe. The percentage represents the share of 
organizations that expect a particular human-agent collaboration model to apply to the most AI agents in their team/function. 
Human-agent collaboration models
21%
7%
41%
19%
21%
38%
9%
21%
4%
2%
4%
12%
AI agents as subordinates
AI agents augmenting 
human team members
AI agents as members within 
human-supervised teams
AI agents directing/allocating work to 
human or prioritizing work for humans
AI agents supervising 
other AI agents
Complete autonomous AI agent teams
Likely model in the next 12 months Likely model in 1–3 years
61
Capgemini Research Institute 2025
Rise of agentic AI: How trust is the key to human-AI collaboration
PAGE 62
Anne-Laure Thibaud
“Organizations should first assess their processes to determine where AI agents 
can be most effectively integrated, ensuring they complement human workers 
rather than displace them. This requires a profound transformation of work 
itself.”
Executive Vice President – Head of AI First Business & Analytics, 
Capgemini
62
Capgemini Research Institute 2025
Rise of agentic AI: How trust is the key to human-AI collaboration
PAGE 63
Figure 20.
Three-quarters of organizations believe that benefits of adding human oversight to AI agent-driven tasks will outweigh costs
Source: Capgemini Research Institute, Agentic AI, April 2025, N = 1,500 executives from corporate and data/AI functions.
Question asked: How does adding human oversight to AI agent-driven tasks impact the balance between benefits (e.g., accuracy, safety) and 
costs (e.g., labor, time), assuming that agentic solutions are expected to mature and become more accurate and reliable over time?
Impact of adding human oversight to AI agent-driven tasks/processes
4% 6%
16%
33%
41%
In 1–3 years
Signiﬁcantly 
more costs 
than beneﬁts
Moderately 
more costs 
than beneﬁts
Costs and 
beneﬁts are 
balanced
Moderately 
more beneﬁts 
than costs
Signiﬁcantly 
more beneﬁts 
than costs
74%
Seamless human-agent 
collaboration elevates 
business outcomes  
Nearly three-quarters of executives believe that benefits of 
adding human oversight to AI agent-driven tasks will 
outweigh costs (see Figure 20). In total, a significant 90% view 
human involvement in AI-agent driven workflows as either 
beneficial or at least cost-neutral. While human oversight will 
be irreplaceable in safety-critical applications such as 
healthcare, it will also be instrumental in aligning agentic 
outcomes with corporate strategy and values. A recent study 
from Stanford University and University of Pennsylvania 
found that subjects made better hiring decisions when using 
an algorithm that offered selective recommendations.48 
Human oversight can also be used to train AI agents to make 
better decisions over time. 
63
Capgemini Research Institute 2025
Rise of agentic AI: How trust is the key to human-AI collaboration
PAGE 64
By effectively integrating human and agentic workforces, 
organizations expect 65% greater engagement in high-value 
tasks; 53% increased creativity; and 49% greater employee 
satisfaction. A recent study assessing teamwork, productivity, 
and performance indicates that collaborating with AI agents 
resulted in 137% more communication and a 60% increase in 
productivity compared with human-only teams.49
Figure 21.
Implementation of AI agents can lead to 65% greater engagement in high-value tasks
Source: Capgemini Research Institute, Agentic AI, April 2025, N = 100 executives from strategy and HR functions.
Question asked: To what extent do you believe the implementation of AI agents in your organization will lead to the following outcomes?
Expected outcomes for the workforce from implementation of AI agents
65%
53%
49%
37%
Greater engagement in high-value tasks
Increased creativity among employees
Employee satisfaction and happiness
Lower attrition rates
90%
of organizations view human involvement in AI-agent driven 
workflows as either beneficial or at least cost-neutral
64
Capgemini Research Institute 2025
Rise of agentic AI: How trust is the key to human-AI collaboration
PAGE 65
A recent study compared clinician diagnostic performance 
across four settings: using conventional resources; using AI as 
a first opinion; using AI as a second opinion; and relying on AI 
alone. Clinicians using conventional resources scored 
significantly lower (75%) than those using AI support (85% 
using AI as first opinion and 82% using AI as second opinion). 
AI alone achieved the highest score (87%).50
Combining human expertise with AI agents significantly 
enhances output quality, speed, scale, and operational 
efficiency, while minimizing risks such as reputational 
damage. 
Itai Asseo
“Just as the shift from BlackBerry to iPhone in 
early days of the smartphone era redefined how 
we engage with technology, the sooner humans 
can intuitively interact with AI agents, the faster 
will be the adoption of agentic AI and its 
subsequent benefits.”
The human workforce is 
worried  
In our 2017 research, 63% of organizations that had implemented 
AI at scale said it had not destroyed any jobs.51 However, with the 
rise of agentic AI, organizations are becoming cautious about its 
implications for the workforce. Over half (52%) of organizations 
believe AI agents will displace more jobs than they create. 
Head of Incubation and Brand Strategy (AI Research), 
Salesforce
65
Capgemini Research Institute 2025
Rise of agentic AI: How trust is the key to human-AI collaboration
PAGE 66
Figure 22.
The workforce is concerned about AI agents’ impact on jobs 
Source: Capgemini Research Institute, Agentic AI, April 2025, N = 100 executives from strategy and HR functions.
Question asked: Please indicate the extent to which you agree with the below statements regarding the potential impact of AI 
agents on the future of work, on a scale of 1 to 7, where 1= strongly disagree and 7= strongly agree.
Share of executives responding to the below statements
52% 19% 29%
61%28%11%
We believe that AI agents will create 
more jobs than they will displace
Our workforce is concerned about AI 
agents' impact on jobs/future careers
Strongly disagree Neutral Strongly agree
The World Economic Forum (WEF) predicts that AI and data 
processing alone will create 11 million roles and replace nine 
million by 2030. Robots and automation, meanwhile, are 
forecast to displace five million more jobs than they create.52  
In a study conducted by Microsoft, nearly half of leaders 
(46%) report using agents to fully automate workflows or 
processes. However, functions will advance at different rates 
and to different extents, depending on the nature of their 
responsibilities.53
The CEO of Klarna, a Swedish provider of buy-now, pay-later 
services, admitted over-relying on AI to cut customer service 
jobs. Klarna is now bringing back more human employees.54 
This highlights that getting the right human-agent 
collaboration is crucial to stability. As the human workforce is 
confronted by the true implications of AI adoption, business 
leaders, academics, and politicians will need to work together 
to find a viable solution. 
66
Capgemini Research Institute 2025
Rise of agentic AI: How trust is the key to human-AI collaboration
PAGE 67
Marjolein Wenderich
“Organizations that treat AI agents only as a productivity 
tool are missing the point. Those that don’t redefine roles, 
incentives, team structures, and leadership models may 
soon find themselves irrelevant.”
Vice President, Global MD – Workforce and Organization, 
Capgemini
67
Capgemini Research Institute 2025
Rise of agentic AI: How trust is the key to human-AI collaboration
PAGE 68
How can organizations capture 
the agentic AI opportunity?  05
68
Capgemini Research Institute 2025
Rise of agentic AI: How trust is the key to human-AI collaboration
PAGE 69
Figure 23.
The agentic AI opportunity
Source: Capgemini Research Institute analysis.
The agentic AI
opportunity
Develop and integrate ethical AI that address the risks posed 
by autonomous AI agents
Ensure AI agents operate within deﬁned scope of 
execution, and remain traceable and explainable to earn 
trust 
Strengthen data and technological 
foundations to scale AI agents
Redesign processes to deploy AI agents eﬀectively and 
reimagine business models
Transform the workforce and organizational 
structure to fully onboard a new, agentic 
workforce as team members
Strike the right balance between agent 
autonomy and human involvement 
69
Capgemini Research Institute 2025
Rise of agentic AI: How trust is the key to human-AI collaboration
PAGE 70
Redesign processes to deploy AI agents  
effectively and reimagine business models
a. Start with the process, 
not the technology  
Organizations must redesign processes with AI at their core. 
This requires moving from incremental automation to a 
deliberate orchestration of AI agents, Gen AI models, and 
traditional AI systems.
For example, a process redesign could include agents 
proactively resolving mismatches, flagging anomalies in real 
time, and learning from approval behaviors to improve 
decision-making. 
b. Use a structured 
framework to select the 
right AI mix  
Each type of AI brings different strengths. AI agents are well-
suited for autonomous coordination and action across 
systems. Gen AI adds value in creative, generative, or 
language-heavy tasks. Traditional machine learning excels at 
prediction and optimization. And RPA and rule engines are 
effective for structured, deterministic workflows.
When assessing processes and technology options, a 
structured framework can help:
• Volumetrics: Automation brings a quick ROI in high-
volume/high-frequency tasks. Low-volume tasks may not 
warrant agentic solutions unless the per-transaction value 
is exceptionally high.
Dorit Zilbershot
“At ServiceNow, our priority 
has been to provide our 
customers with AI agents 
that integrate seamlessly 
into existing enterprise 
workflows - accelerating 
outcomes without disrupting 
what already works.”
GVP, AI Experiences & Innovation,
ServiceNow
70
Capgemini Research Institute 2025
Rise of agentic AI: How trust is the key to human-AI collaboration
PAGE 71
• Decision type: Evaluate the decisions based on the factors 
outlined in the upcoming section to determine the optimal 
level of autonomy.
• Data: Reliable automation depends on accessible, high-
quality, and well-integrated data.
• Level of digitalization: Digital-first processes are easier to 
automate and integrate into AI workflows
• Process stability: Stable and standardized processes are 
generally easier and less risky to automate. Highly variable 
or frequently changing processes may require more 
sophisticated AI.
• Error rate and amount of exceptions:
• Fewer exceptions improve automation performance 
and reliability
• If certain actions of agentic AI have the potential to 
create a cascading effect on downstream systems, 
people, and processes, assess the risk-benefit ratio to 
determine whether such scenarios require high 
automation.
Combining AI agents, Gen AI, AI/ML, and RPA technologies 
can help bring down operational costs. Organizations may 
also assess the adoption of open-source models for certain 
applications, as these can reduce runtime costs while 
delivering comparable performance.
Figure 24.
Illustrative scenario of orchestrating a mix of AI agents, Gen AI, AI/ML, and RPA for a typical marketing campaign
Source: Capgemini Research Institute analysis.
Marketing manager initiates the process
and inputs campaign objectives 
Market exploration
Audience segmentation
Deﬁne goals and
key messages
Create campaign assets
Launch and manage
campaign
Human
validation
Human
validation
Human
validation
AI/MLRPA AI agent Gen AIHuman
Percentage of automation
AI AGENT
Deep research 
AI AGENT
Segmentation
AI/ML
Channel 
identiﬁcation
GEN AI
Content creation
AI AGENT
Campaign brief
GEN AI
Ad copy creation
GEN AI
Multi-modal
content creation
AI AGENT
A/B testing
AI AGENT
Scheduling
and execution 
RPA
Real-time 
monitoring
Analyzes market trends, competitor activity, and consumer sentiment 
Based on insights from CRM, market data, and past engagement and interaction with deep research 
agent, creates micro-segments
Identiﬁes diﬀerent channels based on past engagement patterns
Based on the overall campaign objectives, deﬁnes tangible goals and key messages for each audience groups
Generates campaign brief based on the insights from other agents, tools, key messages, and existing templates
Writes and iterates ad copy based on brief 
Generates assets (visuals, text, video, etc.) adapted for diﬀerent media channels
Runs A/B testing in parallel, ranks eﬀectiveness, interacts with other tools/Gen AI assistants to 
optimize and  ﬁnalize assets
Identiﬁes optimal posting times, schedules dynamically, and automates campaign launch across channels
Monitors engagement, conversions, and ROI based on predeﬁned parameters and triggers action if 
performance drops below threshold levels
71
Capgemini Research Institute 2025
Rise of agentic AI: How trust is the key to human-AI collaboration
PAGE 72
Itziar Goicoechea-Martinez
“The future of enterprise operations lies in the 
seamless integration of agents, other forms of 
AI, automation, in tandem with and under the 
oversight of human co-workers.”
c. Design for 
interoperability and 
orchestration  
Instead of standalone deployments, organizations must 
invest in a modular architecture where different AI systems 
interact. An orchestration agent can manage the entire 
marketing campaign process by delegating tasks to other AI 
agents, Gen AI, AI/ML, or automation tools based on the 
problem, context, and level of expertise required. Dorit 
Zilbershot, GVP, AI Experiences & Innovation at ServiceNow 
highlights: “At ServiceNow, our priority has been to provide 
our customers with AI agents that integrate seamlessly into 
existing enterprise workflows - accelerating outcomes 
without disrupting what already works. These agents are 
built to operate across platforms and not just within 
ServiceNow environment. For instance, in HR, they 
streamline talent screening, onboarding and personalize 
trainings. And in customer service, they pre-fill case details, 
analyze historical data, and assist human workers provide 
faster and more informed responses to customers.” 
Senior Director, AI and Generative AI Offer, 
Capgemini
72
Capgemini Research Institute 2025
Rise of agentic AI: How trust is the key to human-AI collaboration
PAGE 73
d. Scope for business 
model innovation  
Agentic AI can accelerate innovation, save costs, and create 
new revenue streams and business models. Yet, most 
organizations don’t yet recognize this potential – only 26% of 
executives in our survey highlighted the potential to develop 
entirely new business models or revenue streams though 
agentic AI.
Organizations can innovate faster and more intelligently with 
agentic AI. With capabilities like iterative reasoning and 
refinement, AI agents can accelerate the pace of innovation 
and widen the scope of innovation across sectors. For 
example, Google’s AI co-scientist, built on Gemini 2.0, is a 
multi-agent system designed to support scientific discovery. 
This system can not only perform tasks such as market 
research, literature review, and document review, but also 
generate original insights and propose and test novel 
hypotheses. They are especially valuable in high-stakes fields 
like drug discovery, target identification, molecular design, 
and material science simulations. In consumer goods, agents 
can autonomously test product-market fit and create new 
product ideas. In financial services, AI agents can hyper-
personalize financial products and services at scale. 
Dow, a global materials science organization, is deploying 
agents to ferret out hidden losses and streamline shipping 
operations. Once the system is fully scaled, Dow expects 
increased accuracy in logistic rates and billing that will save 
millions.57 Agents in Bayer’s crop science R&D team save up to 
six hours per week, accelerating the innovation process and 
raising productivity.58 AI agents can boost upselling and cross-
selling with hyper-personalized recommendations and 24/7 
proactive outreach.
70%
of organizations believe that AI agents will necessitate 
organizational restructuring
Recent developments have reinforced the importance of 
orchestration. For example:
• In April 2025, Google introduced a new open protocol 
called Agent2Agent (A2A), which enables AI agents to 
communicate with each other, securely exchange 
information, and coordinate actions across various 
enterprise platforms and applications.55
• At Microsoft Build 2025, Microsoft introduced multi-agent 
orchestration in Copilot Studio. This feature allows agents 
to share data, collaborate on tasks, and delegate.56
Agentic AI is not a technological upgrade; it’s a strategic shift 
in how value is created and captured.
73
Capgemini Research Institute 2025
Rise of agentic AI: How trust is the key to human-AI collaboration
PAGE 74
Transform the workforce and organizational structure to  
fully onboard a new, agentic workforce as team members 
Reimagining the businesses and redesigning processes 
calls for a shift in mindset – organizations must begin to 
view AI agents as part of the organization and create an 
environment where human and AI agents work in 
harmony. To this end, organizations must rethink how 
they structure teams, how roles evolve, and how they 
measure performance.
a. Restructuring 
workforce to account for 
human-agent teams  
A notable 70% of organizations believe that AI agents will 
necessitate organizational restructuring. However, skill 
development, and organizational restructuring are not top 
strategic focuses. 
Rather than treating AI agents as tools or assistants, 
organizations must embed them into core teams. This 
includes:
• Defining roles and responsibilities 
of AI agents 
• Organizations must establish formal roles for agents 
within team structures – for example, as research 
agents, workflow coordinators, or testing agents – 
with well-scoped mandates and boundaries, defined 
goals, clear business ownership and accountability, 
and buy-in from human team members.
• Organizations can also consider creating AI personas, 
assigning them appropriate responsibilities and 
integrating them within the team dynamics.
• Clearly redefining the roles and 
responsibilities of human workers 
• 68% of organizations noted that employees could use 
additional capacity to deliver higher-value tasks such 
as strategic planning, innovation, client interaction, 
upselling, and cross-selling. 
• 59% indicated the possibility of creating new roles 
such as AI agent supervisors and agent behavior 
analysts. 
This also entails providing the workforce with the skills 
and support to effectively manage change.
74
Capgemini Research Institute 2025
Rise of agentic AI: How trust is the key to human-AI collaboration
PAGE 75
• Establishing clear accountability for 
decisions made by/with assistance 
of AI agents and create a process to 
continuously monitor alignment to 
intended business goal 
 
As AI agents begin to take on decision-making 
responsibilities, organizations must clarify accountability 
structures. It is essential to.
• Define who is responsible and accountable for actions 
taken by AI agents or supported by them 
• Ensure human oversight is embedded in high-stakes or 
sensitive decisions 
• Introduce formal protocols for continuous monitoring 
as well as specific auditing agent actions and verifying 
outcomes alignment with initial business goal.
b. Evolving operating 
models demand a new 
kind of leadership  
One of our recent studies found that many organizations are 
leaning toward a diamond model of the organizational 
structure – with strong leadership at the top, a broader 
middle layer, and a leaner entry level as AI takes on 
foundational tasks.59
Leaders must build the agentic AI vision into their actions and 
behaviors. As organizations need to view AI agents as part of 
the workforce, recruitment becomes capability assessment 
and onboarding involves defining responsibilities in access. 
Performance, reliability, and alignment with business goals 
are key. Managing AI agents alongside tools through an HR 
lens can help in creating a safe and scalable structure.
Therefore, organizations should establish a team dedicated 
to AI resource management to systematically allocate and 
manage intelligent resources similar to human resources. As 
AI agents operate in real environments, it’s critical to manage 
how they work with humans, teams, and tools to achieve 
shared outcomes. Since AI tools are reusable and often 
shared across teams, tight coordination is essential. 
Companies should build an accessible ecosystem for AI 
agents, with platforms that track agent capabilities to reduce 
redundancy, support reuse, and standardize processes. 
Finally, managing also includes onboarding new agents, 
retiring outdated ones, and updating tools and databases as 
needed. 
Karim R. Lakhani, Chair of the Digital Data Design Institute at 
Harvard, and Dorothy and Michael Hintze Professor of 
Business Administration at Harvard Business School, says: “As 
AI democratizes access to expertise and intelligence, we’ll 
see the rise of intelligence resources departments – much 
like how HR and IT evolved into core functions. These new 
divisions will be essential for managing the interplay 
between humans and AI agents, emerging as a critical 
source of competitive advantage in the AI-enabled 
enterprise.” 60
28%
of organizations are 
confident they can extract 
the full potential of AI 
agents.
75
Capgemini Research Institute 2025
Rise of agentic AI: How trust is the key to human-AI collaboration
PAGE 76
c. Reskilling/upskilling 
the workforce  
Only 28% of organizations are confident they can extract the 
full potential of AI agents. 
Trung Nguyen, Machine Learning Lead at Jira AI, Atlassian 
says: “Organizations can bridge the AI talent gap by 
upskilling employees in prompt engineering and low-code 
tools, enabling rapid prototyping and innovation. But 
building trustworthy agents also requires robust evaluation, 
safety checks, and continuous feedback to ensure outputs 
remain accurate, ethical, and aligned with user 
expectations.” 
Anna Kopp, Digital Lead Germany at Microsoft, says: “We 
have structured academy programs that take employees 
through a step-by-step journey, starting with the basics and 
progressing to more advanced AI use cases.”
Our survey reveals that data management and decision-
making are critical skills required to fully harness the 
potential of AI agents. Soft skills such as collaboration, logical 
reasoning, emotional intelligence, and ethical judgement are 
also crucial to working alongside AI agents. Organizations 
must retain and further develop such critical skills.61 
According to LinkedIn, AI literacy is the most sought-after skill 
in 2025. “Human” skills such as conflict resolution, 
adaptability, and innovative thinking remain in demand, 
highlighting the importance of combining AI expertise with 
exclusively human abilities.62
Rashmi Shetty, Strategy & Transformation, Digital Technology, 
Industrial Energy Technology at Baker Hughes says, “To fully 
realize the potential of agentic AI, organizations must progress 
from AI awareness to AI literacy, and ultimately to AI fluency 
across the enterprise, by investing in targeted areas where AI 
can deliver measurable value and sustained competitive 
advantage.”
Figure 25.
Data management and decision-making are critical skills to build
Source: Capgemini Research Institute, Agentic AI, April 2025, N = 950 executives from strategy and data/AI functions.
Question asked: What are skills employees require for building, managing, and harnessing the potential of AI agents? Select top three hard 
skills and soft skills.
Hard 
skills
Soft 
skills
59%Data management
Programming and 
software development
Troubleshooting and 
debugging AI systems
53%
50%
Decision-making
Collaboration/teamwork
Logical reasoning
52%
48%
43%
Top three hard skills and soft skills required to eﬀectively build, manage, and harness the potential of AI agents
76
Capgemini Research Institute 2025
Rise of agentic AI: How trust is the key to human-AI collaboration
PAGE 77
Traditional metrics may not fully capture the performance 
of human-agent teams. Organizations should consider:
• Joint productivity metrics – measuring outcomes 
delivered through collaborative efforts between 
humans and agents.
• AI agent evaluation metrics – evaluating how AI 
agents contribute to quality, speed, and innovation.
• Collaboration effectiveness – assessing how well 
human and agent roles are aligned and how smoothly 
they interact.
• Skill adaptability – tracking how effectively 
employees adapt their roles and skillsets in response 
to working with AI agents.
A combination of human feedback, agent performance 
logs, and business KPIs can help create a holistic view of 
hybrid team performance.
d. Create new performance 
metrics to gauge hybrid 
performance 
Anna Kopp
“We have structured academy programs that take 
employees through a step-by-step journey, starting 
with the basics and progressing to more advanced AI 
use cases.”
Machine Learning Lead at Jira AI, 
Atlassian
77
Capgemini Research Institute 2025
Rise of agentic AI: How trust is the key to human-AI collaboration
PAGE 78
Strike the right balance between agent 
autonomy and human involvement
Autonomy is not binary but exists on a spectrum. Rather than 
defaulting to full or no automation, the goal is to find the 
right mix of human and agentic workforce that maximizes 
business impact and minimizes risk. Therefore, for each task/
process, organizations need to assess: what level of autonomy 
is required, how humans can contribute, and where human-
agent collaboration will generate better outcomes?
a. Categorize decisions   
The act of delegation requires clarity and trust. But trust 
itself depends on evidence of capability. This creates a 
paradox: unless organizations delegate meaningful work 
to AI agents, they cannot assess performance or build 
confidence. But not all decisions are equally important, 
and not all require the same level of oversight. Categorize 
each decision or action an AI agent would take along the 
following dimensions:
• Risk level of outcomes (e.g., financial, reputational, 
regulatory) 
• Reversibility (Can it be undone or corrected?) 
• Ethical nature (Are there ethical issues such as lack of 
fairness or transparency?) 
• Creativity (Does the task require human innovation, 
intuition, or empathy?)
• Breadth of impact (To what extent will this decision affect 
processes, systems, or people? Will it trigger cascading 
consequences?)
• Compliance (Does the task involve adherence to internal 
policies, regulatory standards, or industry norms?)
This informs autonomy thresholds: that is, where agents 
operate independently, where collaboration between agents 
and humans is required, and where tasks should be 
performed solely by humans. In some cases, this will be 
dictated by law. For instance, the EU AI Act requires providers 
of high-risk AI systems to allow human oversight.63
Organizations can determine the appropriate level of 
autonomy by evaluating the criticality and complexity of 
decisions or actions, alongside their readiness across 
processes, technology, data, and workforce capabilities. AI 
agents with varying degrees of autonomy can operate 
concurrently across different workflows and evolve with 
system maturity.
68%
of organizations noted that employees could use 
additional capacity to deliver higher-value tasks such 
as strategic planning, innovation, etc.
78
Capgemini Research Institute 2025
Rise of agentic AI: How trust is the key to human-AI collaboration
PAGE 79
b. Define “autonomy 
boundaries” in digital 
business architecture   
The digital business architecture defines how data, 
systems, processes, and people interact within the 
organization and establishes clear escalation triggers. 
Human ability to override decisions made by AI agents 
should be frictionless, well-communicated, and should be 
allocated according to role to ensure proper 
accountability. 
Figure 26.
Nearly seven in 10 organizations cite human oversight as risk mitigation
Source: Capgemini Research Institute, Agentic AI, April 2025, N = 1,500 executives from corporate and data/AI functions.
Question asked: How does your organization plan to mitigate potential risks associated with implementing AI agents? Select the top three.
Mitigation plans for risks associated with implementing AI agents 
69%Ensure human oversight at critical 
points of action
Use kill switches to halt operation if unsafe 
behavior is detected
Building human-centric agents 
48%
36%
69%
organizations cite human oversight mitigates the risks 
associated with AI agents
79
Capgemini Research Institute 2025
Rise of agentic AI: How trust is the key to human-AI collaboration
PAGE 80
Strengthen data and technological 
foundations to scale AI agents
a. Build a robust data 
foundation  
We highlight that very few organizations have high maturity 
across all aspects of data-readiness. To address this, 
organizations should establish robust data infrastructure and 
governance protocols to underpin AI agent initiatives: 
• Establish standardized data governance protocols to 
ensure consistency, transparency, and accountability 
throughout the data lifecycle – collection, processing, 
storage, and sharing. 
• Implement strict data validation protocols for all 
datasets used by AI agents. This includes having policies 
around the source, usage rights, access controls, and 
processing methods for each dataset used by AI agents. As 
AI agents may have access to external data and tools, it is 
important to assess and certify data before it enters 
production environments.
b. Upgrade technology 
infrastructure to support 
scalable AI agent 
deployment
• Computing power and scalability: Ensure infrastructure 
can support high computational workloads (e.g., GPUs, 
TPUs) and scale with demand.
• Connectivity and latency: Maintain high-speed, low-
latency networks for seamless agent communication and 
task execution.
• Interoperability across platforms: Enable smooth 
integration of AI agents with enterprise applications, APIs, 
and cloud environments.
• Adopt common data standards to enable seamless data 
exchange across AI agents, other tools and systems, 
business functions, and external ecosystems.
• Ensure AI-readiness of enterprise data – ensure high 
data quality for training and operating AI agents.
• Address cybersecurity and privacy risks by embedding 
compliance with data privacy laws (e.g., GDPR, HIPAA), 
using secure storage solutions, and protecting sensitive 
data with encryption. 
• Invest in modern data architecture such as vector 
databases, real-time data pipelines, and scalable data lakes 
to enable efficient agent performance and data retrieval.
18%
of organizations 
have high maturity 
across all aspects of 
data-readiness
80
Capgemini Research Institute 2025
Rise of agentic AI: How trust is the key to human-AI collaboration
PAGE 81
c. Choose the most 
suitable AI agent 
technology for each task/
process
Organizations need to focus on making informed, context-
specific decisions about whether to build, buy, or adopt a 
hybrid approach for AI agent implementation. The figure 
below provides a practical lens to evaluate these options 
based on ease of integration (plug-and-play vs. bespoke 
integration), degree of vendor lock-in, level of customization, 
control over cost and usage, and privacy control. Aligning this 
decision with long-term business goals is essential for 
sustainable and scalable AI integration.
• Licensing and platform access: Evaluate costs and 
limitations of platform-specific licenses; opt for models 
with flexibility and minimal vendor lock-in.
• Future-proofing architecture: Build with modularity to 
accommodate evolving AI models, newer tools, and 
increased workloads.
Figure 27.
Select the most suitable AI agent technology 
Source: Capgemini.
General AI agents
Open AI o3
Gemini 2.0
Conversational 
AI agents
Kore.ai
Amelia
Salesforce
SAP
ServiceNow
Microsoft Copilot
Google Agentspace
Developer platform
LangSmith
Nvidia
Orchestration, agent frameworks
LangChain
LangGraph
Crew AI
OpenAI Agents SDK
Microsoft Semantic Kernel
Domain AI agents
CX
Lindy
Decagon
11x
Software
Replit
Factory
Devin by Cognition
Dosu
Agentic AI products
Low-code AI agents embedded in digital platform
Custom AI agents
Plug-and-play 
and end-to-end 
integration
No lock-in
 Customization
 Cost of use 
control
Privacy control
Plug-and-play 
and end-to-end 
integration
No lock-in
 Customization
 Cost of use 
control
Privacy control
Plug-and-play 
and end-to-end 
integration
No lock-in Customization Cost of use 
control
Privacy control
81
Capgemini Research Institute 2025
Rise of agentic AI: How trust is the key to human-AI collaboration
PAGE 82
The cost of building custom AI agents can be significant, 
requiring investment in data foundations, model 
development, and compute resources. Additional costs may 
arise from proprietary datasets and the integration of AI 
agents with legacy systems.
To manage these costs, organizations must carefully evaluate 
different AI agent deployment models. AI services are 
offered through various pricing structures, making it 
essential to assess not just functionality, but also long-term 
cost control.
Cost containment also depends on choosing scalable, energy-
efficient solutions. By optimizing infrastructure and 
upgrading to more sustainable hardware, businesses can 
reduce compute overhead and environmental impact while 
keeping AI initiatives financially viable.
Vishal Singhvi
 “Organizations that invest in strong data 
foundations and effective change management are 
seeing 10%+ revenue uplift through agentic AI by 
expanding share of wallet with existing customers 
and unlocking new market segments.”
Director, Strategic Initiatives (Gen AI),
Microsoft
82
Capgemini Research Institute 2025
Rise of agentic AI: How trust is the key to human-AI collaboration
PAGE 83
Ensure AI agents operate within defined scope of execution, 
and remain traceable and explainable to earn trust  
a. Establish goal 
alignment between 
humans and AI agents  
Defining an agent’s intended purpose, scope of execution, 
and measuring fulfillment are crucial. Purpose may be 
explicitly coded through rules and objectives or implicitly 
shaped by learning processes. Even at advanced levels of 
autonomy, AI agents operate within established boundaries: 
clearly defined goals and mechanisms for monitoring 
compliance and strategic oversight are built into the system’s 
design.
As agents gain independence and capability, alignment 
becomes both more important and more challenging.
Organizations must establish continuous feedback and 
improvement cycles to refine and enhance AI agents’ 
performance. Nearly two-thirds (65%) of organizations 
indicate that they plan to develop reporting and feedback 
systems.
83
Capgemini Research Institute 2025
Rise of agentic AI: How trust is the key to human-AI collaboration
PAGE 84
Figure 28.
Demonstrated accuracy and transparency into all actions of AI agents are top factors that could improve trust
Source: Capgemini Research Institute, Agentic AI, April 2025, N = 897 executives from corporate and data/AI functions who do not trust AI agents.
Question asked: What factors would increase your trust in AI agents and agentic AI? Select the top three factors. 
Factors that would improve trust in AI agents
52%Demonstrated accuracy and reliability 
Explanation and transparency of all decisions and actions of AI agents (including underlying data)
Robust security, governance, and compliance
Human oversight with the ability to intervene or overrule at any point
Ability to measure AI impact and eﬃciency
Advanced training of workforce and exposure to AI agents
Fully digital and seamlessly integrated business processes and tools
Clearly deﬁned failure scenarios, accountability, and mitigation strategies
Clear organizational guidelines for AI use
45%
42%
36%
32%
26%
24%
22%
20%
84
Capgemini Research Institute 2025
Rise of agentic AI: How trust is the key to human-AI collaboration
PAGE 85
Steve Jones
“For people to trust AI agents they need to be able 
to understand its boundaries and know it will only 
operate within them. Most companies do not have 
digital definitions of those boundaries which 
prevents people trusting AI.”
b. Ensure observability  
Trust comes from observability. Observability refers to 
increasing visibility of the decisions and actions of AI agents. 
This means offering insights into the inputs, tools invoked, 
parameters used, and the reasoning behind decisions and 
actions to address the black-box nature of advanced AI 
systems.
To achieve this, organizations need to establish robust 
observability frameworks to ensure that AI agents perform 
reliably and transparently under various conditions. 
This trust can be further amplified by implementing 
mechanisms such as: 
• Scenario testing under edge cases and high-risk conditions
• Error detection and reporting systems to identify 
anomalies in real time
• Failover strategies for underperformance
• Incident response plans for agent failures or unexpected 
behavior
• Third-party audits of training data, decision logic, and bias 
mitigation.
Executive Vice President – Data Driven Business and Generative AI, 
Capgemini
85
Capgemini Research Institute 2025
Rise of agentic AI: How trust is the key to human-AI collaboration
PAGE 86
Develop and integrate ethical AI that address  
the risks posed by autonomous AI agents
Figure 29.
Only 14% have fully integrated ethical AI principles 
Source: Capgemini Research Institute, Agentic AI, April 2025, N = 1,500 executives from corporate and data/AI functions.
Question asked: Rate your organization’s current level of maturity in implementing ethical AI principles.
Share of organizations by current level of maturity in implementing ethical AI principles
Nascent (No formal measures in place) Emerging (Some initial policies/guidelines 
exist but adoption is inconsistent)
Developed (Well-deﬁned frameworks and 
processes are in place, with partial adoption)
Integrated (Policies/guidelines are fully embedded 
into decision-making, governance, and workﬂows)
18% 36% 33% 14%
16% 32% 40% 12%
15% 29% 41% 15%
16% 29% 36% 19%
17% 41% 31% 11%
15% 38% 32% 14%
29% 38% 23% 10%
18% 43% 25% 14%
Average
Respectful of privacy and data protection 
Robust and safe (Including fallback plans where needed)
Controllable with clear accountability 
Transparent and explainable 
Fair
Sustainable
Carefully delimited impact (Designed for human beneﬁt, with a clearly deﬁned purpose)
86
Capgemini Research Institute 2025
Rise of agentic AI: How trust is the key to human-AI collaboration
PAGE 87
Beyond trust, AI agents must uphold ethical values, guard 
against misuse, and prevent failure cascades. As they 
assume greater operational control, AI agents will heighten 
all the risks posed by traditional AI and Gen AI.
Organizations are also increasingly concerned about 
privacy, security, legal liability, bias, and the risks of 
overreliance on AI agents. Yet only 14% report having fully 
embedding ethical AI principles into decision-making, 
governance, and workflows. Sustainability is the least 
integrated principle among ethical AI principles.
A risk assessment framework can guide safe and appropriate 
use of AI agents. This includes checking whether risks have 
been identified, assessed, and approved by relevant 
stakeholders, whether inputs and outputs are acceptable and 
accurate, and whether proper verification processes are in 
place. If not, organizations should either proceed with 
caution and use mitigating measures or refrain from using 
the solution all together.
Itai Asseo, Head of Incubation and Brand Strategy (AI 
Research) at Salesforce, says: “IT will be a strategic enabler in 
the AI agent ecosystem—ensuring resilient infrastructure, 
seamless performance, and enterprise-grade availability. As 
gen AI and agentic AI adoption accelerates, IT leaders must 
proactively address ethics and safety concerns, token usage 
and optimization costs, turning operational oversight into a 
competitive business advantage.”
Organizations must establish or revisit existing ethical AI 
guidelines. They can look to international frameworks such as 
ISO/IEC 42001, which provides structured guidance on 
managing AI risks and opportunities.64 
• Embed ethical reasoning into AI agent design: This 
allows AI agents to flag dilemmas to human decision-
makers. For example, if an AI agent testing marketing 
campaign assets finds that provocative or sensational 
content increases engagement, it flags a dilemma 
regarding the potential impact on brand credibility and 
prompts human review. 
• Make agent decision-making traceable and auditable: 
Establish mechanisms to trace the full “thought process” 
of AI agents, from input to action, to ensure transparency 
and accountability. This includes detailed action logs, 
prompts or goals, and embedded reasoning chains that 
can be reviewed in audits or challenged in real time. 
• Create layered governance by design: Prevent failure 
cascades by designing layered systems where multiple AI 
agents can critique, supervise, or override each other. 
Introduce “guardian agents,” tasked with reviewing high-
stakes decisions or stress-testing outputs for bias, 
hallucinations, or safety risks. This agent-of-agents 
architecture mirrors human checks and balances and 
builds resilience into autonomous systems. Dr. Suraj 
Srinivasan at Harvard Business School says: “While 
deploying AI agents, organizations must move beyond 
technical implementation and consider how core values 
are embedded into these systems. Unlike humans, who 
naturally understand context and are guided by 
organizational ethos, AI agents require these principles to 
be explicitly defined and built into their design. Ethics can 
no longer be managed by exception; they must be 
embedded into the system from the start.”
• Train human workers for ethical fluency: Equip human 
teams across the organization with the fluency to 
anticipate ethical and safety challenges posed by AI 
agents. This includes scenario-based training, decision-
making frameworks, and cross-functional simulations to 
strengthen ethical reflexes, particularly in fast-moving or 
ambiguous situations.
• Appoint AI ethicists to embed ethical oversight across 
the lifecycle: AI ethicists are responsible for defining and 
maintaining a clearly articulated code of ethics for AI 
agents, aligned with organizational values. They play a 
critical role in ensuring the right questions are being asked 
around AI agent implementation, and that ownership of 
ethical and operational risks is clearly defined. By 
coordinating with governance, delivery, legal, and 
executive teams, AI ethicists establish mechanisms to track 
compliance, embed ethics into AI systems, and create clear 
escalation and reporting channels. This team should be 
composed of individuals from diverse cultural, 
educational, and professional backgrounds to reflect a 
broad range of worldviews and mitigate individual biases 
in decision-making.
Continuous monitoring and improvement mechanisms will 
ensure these solutions evolve with changing business needs 
and technological capabilities, creating a virtuous cycle.65 In 
addition, organizations should also stay abreast of evolving 
national and international AI regulation, including 
government policies and sector-specific frameworks, to 
ensure responsible deployment of agentic AI.
87
Capgemini Research Institute 2025
Rise of agentic AI: How trust is the key to human-AI collaboration
PAGE 88
Figure 30.
Confidence in agentic AI
Source: Capgemini, “Business, meet agentic AI: Confidence in autonomous and agentic system,” May 2025.
AI that works
AI that works reliably
AI that's aligned with human expectations
AI that works in people's best interests
▪ Proven ability accuracy
• Robustness
• Eﬀective communication 
• Sensibility
• Humility
• Usability
Conﬁdence 
in agentic AI
• Dependability
• Trusted architecture
• Stability
• Explainability
• Purpose
• intent
• Extrapolates sensibly
• Degree of authority and autonomy
• Fails gracefully
• Identity and anthropomorphism
• Fairness
• Privacy
• Desired emergent behavior
• Sustainability
Ethical design is not a one-time effort. Organizations need to 
regularly audit agent behavior, monitor drift in real-time, and 
recalibrate systems in response to evolving risks. 
14%
of organizations have fully integrated ethical AI 
principles
88
Capgemini Research Institute 2025
Rise of agentic AI: How trust is the key to human-AI collaboration
PAGE 89
AI agents mark a new frontier in enterprise automation and 
human-machine collaboration that shifts the conversation 
from task-level efficiency to a holistic transformation of 
business processes across enterprise domains. The potential 
is vast: from unlocking billions in value to reshaping the 
nature of work itself. Organizations must move beyond 
experimentation toward purposeful scaling, grounded in 
trust, transparency, and human-centric design.
Conclusion
The winners in this next wave of AI will not be those who 
simply deploy more AI tools. Rather, they will be those who 
rethink their business, reimagine workflows, reskill their 
workforces, restructure their organizations, and embed 
ethical safeguards from the outset. Ensuring seamless 
integration of human and agentic workforces requires a shift 
in mindset from isolated innovation to ecosystem thinking 
and from siloed experimentation to enterprise orchestration. 
As agentic AI evolves, so too must the capabilities, cultures, 
and leadership required to harness it.
89
Capgemini Research Institute 2025
Rise of agentic AI: How trust is the key to human-AI collaboration
PAGE 90
Research methodology
We conducted a global survey of 1,500 executives at 
organizations each with more than $1 billion in annual 
revenue, across 14 countries. Organizations operate across 
13 sectors. All have started to explore agentic AI. The global 
survey took place in April 2025. Executives surveyed are at 
director level and above. Of these, 60% are from data and AI 
functions, while 40% are from diverse business functions. 
The distribution of respondents and their organizations is 
provided below.
Organizations by country Organizations by sector
9%
9%
9%
6%
5%
France
Germany
India
Spain
Netherlands
Italy
Australia
Japan
Brazil
Sweden
Singapore
Norway
30%
5%
5%
5%
4%
4%
3%
3%
3%
Organizations by country Organizations by sector
United Kingdom
United States 10%
10%
10%
10%
10%
10%
8%
7%
Consumer products
Retail
Energy and utilities
Banking and capital markets
Life sciences
Insurance
Aerospace and defense
Telecom
High-tech
Media and entertainment
Public sector
Manufacturing
Automotive
5%
5%
5%
5%
5%
9%
9%
9%
6%
5%
France
Germany
India
Spain
Netherlands
Italy
Australia
Japan
Brazil
Sweden
Singapore
Norway
30%
5%
5%
5%
4%
4%
3%
3%
3%
Organizations by country Organizations by sector
United Kingdom
United States 10%
10%
10%
10%
10%
10%
8%
7%
Consumer products
Retail
Energy and utilities
Banking and capital markets
Life sciences
Insurance
Aerospace and defense
Telecom
High-tech
Media and entertainment
Public sector
Manufacturing
Automotive
5%
5%
5%
5%
5%
90
Capgemini Research Institute 2025
Rise of agentic AI: How trust is the key to human-AI collaboration
PAGE 91
Share of executives by function
Share of executives by function
Organizations by sector
3%
5%
3%
3%
3%
3%
3%
3%
Human resources
Sales
Marketing and customer service
Innovation/R&D/product design/support
Manufacturing/production/operations
Procurement/supply chain/logistics
Technology/digital/IT
Sustainability
Finance and risk
StrategyCorporate
40%
Data/AI
60%
8%
3%
91
Capgemini Research Institute 2025
Rise of agentic AI: How trust is the key to human-AI collaboration
PAGE 92
Organizations by annual revenue Pubic sector organizations by annual budget 
39%
$1 billion – less than $5 billion
30%
$5 billion – less than $10 billion
13%
$10 billion – less than $20 billion
10%
$20 billion – less than $50 billion 
5%
$50 billion – less than $75 billion
3%
$75 billion – less than $100 billion 
1%
More than $100 billion
Organizations by annual revenue Public sector organizations by annual budget 
17%
$500 million – less than $1 billion
76%
$1 billion – less than $5 billion
3%
$5 billion – less than $10 billion 
4%
$10 billion – less than $20 billion 
39%
$1 billion – less than $5 billion
30%
$5 billion – less than $10 billion
13%
$10 billion – less than $20 billion
10%
$20 billion – less than $50 billion 
5%
$50 billion – less than $75 billion
3%
$75 billion – less than $100 billion 
1%
More than $100 billion
Organizations by annual revenue Public sector organizations by annual budget 
17%
$500 million – less than $1 billion
76%
$1 billion – less than $5 billion
3%
$5 billion – less than $10 billion 
4%
$10 billion – less than $20 billion 
92
Capgemini Research Institute 2025
Rise of agentic AI: How trust is the key to human-AI collaboration
PAGE 93
Executives’ level of involvement in their organization’s agentic AI initiatives
Organizations by sector
44%
Responsible and accountable for 
leading one or more agentic AI initiative 
(usually with a target to improve KPIs)
56%
Responsible (but not necessarily 
accountable) for one or more 
agentic AI initiative
Executives’ level of involvement in their organization’s agentic AI initiatives
Organizations by sector
44%
Responsible and accountable for 
leading one or more agentic AI initiative 
(usually with a target to improve KPIs)
56%
Responsible (but not necessarily 
accountable) for one or more 
agentic AI initiative
We also conducted in-depth discussions with 33 senior 
executives from the industry, hyperscalers, startups, and 
academia to complement the survey findings.
The study findings reflect the views of the respondents to 
our online questionnaire for this research and are intended 
to provide directional guidance. Please contact one of the 
Capgemini experts listed at the end of the report to discuss 
specific implications. 
93
Capgemini Research Institute 2025
Rise of agentic AI: How trust is the key to human-AI collaboration
PAGE 94
accessories, MCP provides a standardized way to connect 
AI models to different data sources and tools.67
• Agent-to-Agent (A2A) Protocol:  A open protocol that 
provides a standard way for AI agents to communicate 
with each other, securely exchange information, and 
coordinate actions on top of various enterprise platforms 
or applications, regardless of the underlying framework or 
vendor. It complements Anthropic’s Model Context 
Protocol (MCP).68
• Internet of AI agents: An open, interoperable, and 
quantum-safe Internet for agent-to-agent collaboration 
between AI agents across organizational boundaries.69
• Orchestration: The coordination and management of 
multiple AI agents, workflows, tools, and systems towards 
shared objectives.
Appendix
Glossary
• Agentic workflow: Agentic workflows are AI agent-
driven processes where AI agents manage, coordinate, 
and execute end-to-end processes with less human 
intervention.
• Multi-agent system: A multi-agent system (MAS) 
consists of multiple independent agents operating 
within a common environment, working together to 
achieve goals beyond what any individual agent could 
accomplish. These systems, sometimes called agentic 
architectures or frameworks, represent the cutting edge 
of autonomous system development.66
• Model Context Protocol (MCP): MCP is an open 
protocol that standardizes how applications provide 
context to LLMs. Think of MCP like a USB-C port for AI 
applications. Just as USB-C provides a standardized way 
to connect your devices to various peripherals and 
94
Capgemini Research Institute 2025
Rise of agentic AI: How trust is the key to human-AI collaboration
PAGE 95
Economic potential of AI agents
We have taken two approaches to estimate the total 
economic value generated by agentic AI over the next three 
years by organizations in surveyed countries.
Approach 1: $450 billion in economic value over the next 
three years in the countries surveyed.
• We assume that organizations that have scaled 
implementation of AI agents can capture 50% of the 
expected benefits, while those that have not scaled can 
realize 10% of the expected benefits.
• The overall economic value generated by surveyed 
organizations in a given year is the weighted sum of the 
value captured by both segments (scaled and non-scaled). 
• The total revenue of organizations surveyed accounts for 
approximately 34% of the total GDP across countries 
surveyed. We extrapolate the overall economic value 
generated by agentic AI for surveyed organizations to the 
surveyed countries by assuming a proportional 
relationship between economic contribution and the 
potential for AI agent-driven value creation.
95
Capgemini Research Institute 2025
Rise of agentic AI: How trust is the key to human-AI collaboration
PAGE 96
2025 2026 2027
A.
B.
C.
D.
E.
F.
G.
H.
I.
J.
Share of business processes expected to be handled by AI agents at level 3 or higher autonomy (survey data)
Number of surveyed organizations 1,500
15% 20% 25%
3.5% 4.6% 5.8%
3.3% 3.3% 3.3%⁷²
$14.7 billion $15.2 billion $15.7 billion
14% 20% 25%
1.4–7.2% 2–9.8% 2.5–12.3%
$7 million–$35 million $13 million–$66 million $21 million–$107 million
$9.4 billion $9.7 billion $10 billion
15% 25% 35%
Share of business processes contributing to ﬁnancial impact 
(According to MIT, only 23% of exposed tasks are cost eﬀective to automate using AI technologies within the next ten years)⁷⁰ 
Projected GDP growth⁷¹
Average annual revenue per organization (survey data)
Expected revenue growth from AI agents (survey data)
Estimated revenue growth (assuming 10– 50% of expectations materialize)
Estimated revenue growth per organization (=C*E*G)
Average cost of goods sold (COGS) per organization⁷³  
Expected cost savings from AI agents (survey data)
96
Capgemini Research Institute 2025
Rise of agentic AI: How trust is the key to human-AI collaboration
PAGE 97
2025 2026 2027
K.
L.
M.
N.
O.
P.
Q.
R.
Estimated cost savings per organization (=C*I*K)
Estimated cost savings (assuming 10–50% of expectations materialize)
$5 million–$25 million $12 million–$58 million $21 million–$105 million
1.5–7.5% 2.5–12.6% 3.5–17.6%
$12 million– $58 million $24 million–$119 million $41 million–$204 million
$76 million–$382 million
2% 7% 12%
$19 billion $46 billion $92 billion
$157 billion
$456 billion
Total value generated per organization (=H+L)
Total value generated over the next three years, per organization
Share of organizations with scaled implementation of AI agents
Overall economic value generated by surveyed organizations (= (O* M upper bound)+((100%-O) * M lower bound)))
(Assuming that those with scaled implementation will realize 50% of expected beneﬁts and the remaining will realize 10% of 
expected beneﬁts) 
Overall economic value generated over the next three years by surveyed organizations 
Overall economic value generated over the next three years by surveyed countries
Source: Capgemini Research Institute analysis.
*Note: It is assumed that the adoption of AI agents will increase at the same rate as that of Gen AI. Since 2023, the adoption of Gen AI has grown sixfold. 
97
Capgemini Research Institute 2025
Rise of agentic AI: How trust is the key to human-AI collaboration
PAGE 98
Approach 2: $3.3 trillion in economic value over the next three years in surveyed countries.
In this approach, we assume that the full value of expected revenue growth and cost savings from agentic AI accrues to all organizations, regardless of their level of scaling.
2025 2026 2027
A.
B.
C.
D.
E.
F.
G.
H.
I.
J.
Share of business processes expected to be handled by AI agents at level 3 or higher autonomy (survey data)
Number of surveyed organizations
15% 20% 25%
1,500
3.5% 4.6% 5.8%
3.3% 3.3%⁷⁶ 3.3%
$14.1 billion $14.6 billion $15.1 billion
14% 20% 25%
$70 million $131 million $214 million
$9 billion $9.6 billion
15% 35%
$9.3 billion
25%
$47 million $194 million$107 million
Share of business processes contributing to ﬁnancial impact (According to MIT, only 23% of exposed tasks are cost eﬀective to 
automate using AI technologies within the next ten years⁷⁴ )
Projected GDP growth⁷⁵
Average annual revenue per organization (survey data)
Expected revenue growth from AI agents (survey data)
Estimated revenue growth per organization (=C*E*F)
Average cost of goods sold (COGS) per organization⁷⁷  
Expected cost savings from AI agents (survey data)
Estimated cost savings per organization (=C*H*I)
98
Capgemini Research Institute 2025
Rise of agentic AI: How trust is the key to human-AI collaboration
PAGE 99
2025 2026 2027
H.
I.
J.
K.
L.
M.
N.
O.
Total value generated over the next three years, per organization
Total value generated per organization (=G+J)
Estimated cost savings per organization (=C*H*I)
Expected cost savings from AI agents (survey data)
Average cost of goods sold (COGS) per organization⁷⁷ 
$763 million
$238 million $408 million$117 million
$107 million $194 million$47 million
25% 35%million15%
$9.3 billion $9.6 billion$9 billion
$175 billion $358 billion $612 billion
$1.15 trillion
$3.3 trillion
14% 20% 25%
$70 million $131 million $214 million
$9 billion $9.6 billion$9.3 billion
Overall economic value generated by surveyed organizations (=A*K)
Overall economic value generated by surveyed organizations, over the next three years 
Overall economic value generated by surveyed countries
Source: Capgemini Research Institute analysis.
99
Capgemini Research Institute 2025
Rise of agentic AI: How trust is the key to human-AI collaboration
PAGE 100
The AI agents/agentic AI ecosystem - examples of companies and startups with products/services in each layer of the AI tech stack
Frontend/applications
Memory
Tools
Agentic
observability
Agentic
orchestration
Foundational
models
Database
Infra/base
GPU/CPU
provider
Source: Capgemini Research Institute analysis.
*Logos and trademarks belong to respective owners. Some players offer products/services that span multiple layers.
100
Capgemini Research Institute 2025
Rise of agentic AI: How trust is the key to human-AI collaboration
PAGE 101
References
11. “At scale” implementation refers to the phase following 
a successful partial scaling, where several AI agents are 
generally available within a function or where multiple 
functions have agents that are generally available.
12. Goldman Sachs, “Gen AI: Too much spend, too little benefit?” 
June 2024.
13. IDC, “The global impact of artificial intelligence on the 
economy and jobs: AI will steer 3.5% of GDP in 2030,” 
August 2024.
14. Goldman Sachs, Gen AI: Too much spend.
15. Capgemini Research Institute, “Generative AI in 
organizations,” July 2024. 
16. Ericsson, “Talk to your network: Igniting the AI revolution in 
autonomous networks,” March 2025.
17. Siemens press release, “Siemens introduces AI agents for 
industrial automation”, May 2025
18. Blog, “Google Cloud’s Automotive AI Agent arrives for 
Mercedes-Benz”, Jan 2025
19. Analytics India Magazine, “Rolls-Royce, EY leverage ServiceNow 
AI agent orchestrator for complex tasks,” January 2025.
20. The Wall Street Journal, “Everyone’s talking about AI agents. 
Barely anyone knows what they are,” March 2025.
21. Tech in Asia, “ANZ Bank plans AI agents to boost productivity,” 
May 2025.
22. WSJ, “Walmart is preparing to welcome its next customer: The 
AI shopping agent,” May 2025.
23. Investor Nvidia, “NVIDIA Partners With Novo Nordisk and DCAI 
to Advance Drug Discovery”, June 2025
24. Forbes, ”Transforming Telecom Operations Through Agentic 
And Generative AI”, Feb 2025
25. Coincentral,” BlackRock Taps AI to Read the Markets, Starting 
with New Analyst Platform”, June 2025
26. Azumo, “Top AI Agent Development Companies Transforming 
Work in 2025”, May 2025
27. Aimsresearch, “Fargo Handled More Than 200 Million Requests 
Without Sending Customer Data to an LLM”, April 2025
1. OpenAI website, accessed June 2025.
2. Devin website, accessed June 2025.
3. Manus website, accessed June 2025.
4. Capgemini, “TechnoVision: Top 5 Tech Trends to Watch in 
2025,” November 2024.
5. Arxiv, “Measuring AI Ability to Complete Long Tasks,” 
March 2025.
6. Stanford University HAI, Artificial Intelligence Index Report 
2025, 2025.
7. Bond, “Trends – Artificial Intelligence,” May 2025.
8. Stanford University HAI, Artificial Intelligence Index Report 
2025, 2025.
9. Reuters, “DeepSeek sparks AI stock selloff; Nvidia posts 
record market-cap loss,” January 2025.
10. Bond, “Trends – Artificial Intelligence,” May 2025.
101
Capgemini Research Institute 2025
Rise of agentic AI: How trust is the key to human-AI collaboration
PAGE 102
28. Oyelabs, “AI Agents Revolutionizing Finance with Smarter 
Decisions”, February 2025
29. Shopify, “Expanding your AI Horizons, Summer ‘25 Edition, 
May 2025
30. Forbes, “Fintech’s Latest Trend: AI Agents For Investment 
Research”, April 2025
31. Github, “GitHub Introduces Coding Agent For GitHub Copilot”, 
May 2025
32. World Economic Forum, “AI agents could tip the cybersecurity 
balance towards defenders”, June 2025
33. Microsoft, “Industrial AI in action: How AI agents and digital 
threads will transform the manufacturing industries”, 
March 2025
34. Capgemini, “Agentic AI for Enterprise by Capgemini,” accessed 
June 2025.
35. Prnewswire, “PepsiCo Leverages Salesforce’s Agentforce to 
Advance AI Agenda”, June 2025
36. Cisco News, “Cisco and Mistral AI partner to deliver on Cisco’s 
mission to transform the customer experience with AI,” 
February 2025. 
37. Technology magazine, “Why Honeywell & Google Cloud have 
teamed up on industrial AI,” October 2024.
38. TechCrunch, “Google rolls out Project Mariner, its web-browsing 
AI agent,” May 2025.
39. Deviniti, “AI Agent: A smart team member in customer service at 
Credit Agricole,” accessed May 2025.
40. American Automobile Association, “AAA: Fear in Self-Driving 
Vehicles Persists,” February 2025.
41. Forbes, “New research finds why some surveyed workers don’t 
trust Agentic AI,” January 2025.
42. Stanford Journal, “Stanford 2025 AI Index reports surge in 
adoption, investment, and global impact as trust and regulation 
lag behind,” April 2025.
43. ACRE Campaigns, “Driven Out By AI: How Uber Deactivations 
Force Drivers into Chatbot Hell and Financial Crisis,” March 2025.
44. Capgemini Research Institute, Harnessing the value of 
generative AI: Top use cases across sectors, July 2023.
45. Capgemini Research Institute, Harnessing the value of 
generative AI: Top use cases across sectors (2nd edition), 
July 2024.
46. DataStax, “New AI agents survey: Trust, control, and reliability 
remain concerns,” February 2025.
47. White & Case, “AI Watch: Global regulatory tracker,” March 2025.
48. Stanford Graduate School of Business, “Designing AI that keeps 
human decision-makers in mind,” May 2025.
49. Arxiv, “Collaborating with AI Agents: Field Experiments on 
50. Capgemini Research Institute, Gen AI at work: Shaping the 
future of organizations, October 2024.
51. Microsoft, Work Trend Index Annual Report 2025, April 2025.
52. Capgemini, “Business, meet agentic AI: Confidence in 
autonomous and agentic system,” May 2025.
53. LinkedIn, LinkedIn skills on the rise 2025: The 15 fastest-growing 
skills in the US, March 2025.
102
Capgemini Research Institute 2025
Rise of agentic AI: How trust is the key to human-AI collaboration
PAGE 103
54. EU Artificial Intelligence Act, “High-level summary of the AI 
act,” February 2024.
55. ISO, ISO/IEC 42001:2023, 2023.
56. Capgemini, “Business, meet agentic AI: Confidence in 
autonomous and agentic system,” May 2025.
57. Capgemini, “Business, meet agentic AI: Confidence in 
autonomous and agentic system,” May 2025.
58. Anthropic, “Introducing the Model Context Protocol,” 
November 2024.
59. Google for developers, “Announcing the Agent2Agent 
Protocol (A2A),” April 2025.
60. Cisco, “Internet of AI agents”, January 2025.
61. Goldman Sachs, “Gen AI: Too much spend, too little benefit?” 
June 2024.
62. “Only 23% of exposed tasks are cost effective to automate using 
AI technologies within the next ten years.”
63. IMF, “Global growth: Divergent and uncertain,” January 2025. 
64. Assuming constant GDP growth for 2027.
65. Vena, “Industry benchmarks of gross, net and operating profit 
margins,” August 2024.
66. Goldman Sachs, “Gen AI: Too much spend, too little benefit?” 
June 2024.
67. “Only 23% of exposed tasks are cost effective to automate using 
AI technologies within the next ten years.”
68. IMF, “Global Growth: Divergent and Uncertain, January 2025. 
69. Assuming constant GDP growth for 2027.
70. Vena, “Industry benchmarks of gross, net and operating profit 
margins,” August 2024.
71. Goldman Sachs, “Gen AI: Too much spend, too little benefit?” 
June 2024.
72. “Only 23% of exposed tasks are cost effective to automate 
using AI technologies within the next ten years.”
73. IMF, “Global growth: Divergent and uncertain,” January 2025. 
74. Assuming constant GDP growth for 2027.
75. Vena, “Industry benchmarks of gross, net and operating profit 
margins,” August 2024.
76. Goldman Sachs, “Gen AI: Too much spend, too little benefit?” 
June 2024.
77. “Only 23% of exposed tasks are cost effective to automate 
using AI technologies within the next ten years.”
78. IMF, “Global Growth: Divergent and Uncertain, January 2025. 
79. Assuming constant GDP growth for 2027.
80. Vena, “Industry benchmarks of gross, net and operating profit 
margins,” August 2024.
103
Capgemini Research Institute 2025
Rise of agentic AI: How trust is the key to human-AI collaboration
PAGE 104
Authors
Meet the experts
Anne-Laure Thibaud 
Executive Vice President – Head of AI 
First Business & Analytics, Capgemini
annelaure.thibaud@capgemini.com
Anne-Laure Thibaud leads a worldwide team 
accelerating the adoption of Generative and 
Agentic AI, helping organizations unlock business 
value through AI-driven transformation. With a 
focus on designing and operating high-impact 
solutions in collaboration with key technology 
partners, Anne-Laure champions new ways of 
working where human and AI agents collaborate 
to drive meaningful and sustainable outcomes at 
scale.
Sergey Patsko
Vice President, Data and AI Group Offer 
Leader, Capgemini
sergey.patsko@capgemini.com
Sergey Patsko is a VP and Data & AI Group 
Offer Leader at Capgemini. He leads the team 
of Capgemini Offer Leaders in the core area of 
the Group – Data & AI. By developing offerings 
like Generative AI or Agentic AI, Capgemini 
enables businesses to optimize processes, 
create personalized customer experiences, and 
uncover opportunities for growth. Prior to joining 
Capgemini, Sergey worked on applications of AI 
for automation of manufacturing processes and 
Digital Transformation for Fortune 500 companies 
at General Electric. He was at the forefront of 
developing IoT platforms and applying AI to 
industrial operations. Sergey has a rich venture 
capital experience, having collaborated with AI 
startups in Silicon Valley. He holds a PhD in Applied 
Mathematics and a Master’s degree from Stanford 
Graduate School of Business.
Pascal Brier
Group Chief Innovation Officer and member  
of the Group Executive Committee, Capgemini 
pascal.brier@capgemini.com
Pascal Brier is the Group Chief Innovation 
Officer and member of the Group Executive 
Committee at Capgemini, a role he has held 
since 2021 after a long career in leadership 
positions at Microsoft, AT&T and NCR. In his 
current position, Pascal oversees Technology, 
Innovation and Ventures for the Group 
worldwide. His efforts center on tracking 
analyzing, and implementing more than 1,000 
emerging technologies annually. Under his 
guidance, the company constantly strives to be 
at the forefront of technological innovation, 
making significant impacts on the world of 
business and wider society.
Itziar Goicoechea-Martinez
Senior Director, AI and Generative AI Offer, 
Capgemini
itziar.goicoechea-martinez@capgemini.com
Itziar brings over 15 years of international 
leadership in technology and data, with deep 
expertise in machine learning across the 
e-commerce, technology, and pharmaceutical 
sectors. She previously served as Director of Data 
Science at Adidas and worked in machine learning 
for Bayer and Apple. She holds a PhD in Physics.
104
Capgemini Research Institute 2025
Rise of agentic AI: How trust is the key to human-AI collaboration
PAGE 105
Authors
Meet the experts
Marjolein Wenderich
Vice President, Global MD – Workforce and 
Organization, Capgemini
marjolein.wenderich@capgemini.com
Marjolein is the Global Head - Workforce & 
Organization at Capgemini Invent. Previously 
associated with Alliander, Atos Consulting 
and KPMG in both consulting and managerial 
roles. With over 25 years of experience in the 
public and corporate market, she has helped 
the organizations reimagine work, workforce 
evolution and workplace models in the age 
of digital disruption. She specializes in driving 
enterprise-wide transformation through agile 
operating models, skills-based workforce 
planning and AI- enabled talent ecosystems. 
A trusted advisor and speaker, Marjolein 
brings a unique blend of strategic insight 
and tech-enabled execution to future-proof 
organizations in a rapidly evolving world of 
work. 
Steve Jones
Executive Vice President – Data Driven  
Business and Generative AI, Capgemini
steve.g.jones@capgemini.com
Steve is the EVP for Data Driven Business 
& Agentic Architecture at Capgemini, he 
is a published author and contributor to 
numerous journals and conferences on the 
challenges of the business adoption of new 
technologies. His focus today is on how 
companies prepare themselves for the 50% 
AI future.
Robert Engels
Vice President and Head of Generative AI 
Lab, CTO, Insights and Data, Capgemini
robert.engels@capgemini.com
Robert (Dr. Bob) Engels is serving as CTO, AI 
for the Insights & Data Business Line. He has a 
long track record in the fields of AI, cognitive 
psychology, and knowledge presentation. 
Before joining Capgemini, he worked for 
startups, angel investors, and the Oslo 
municipality, had his own startup, oversaw 
radio and television production infrastructures 
with AI, and built a digital (AI-based) experience 
center for popular music. Robert holds a 
master’s degree in cognitive psychology and AI, 
and a PhD in AI and reasoning.
Daniela Rittmeier
Head of Generative AI Accelerator, Germany, 
Capgemini
daniela.rittmeier@capgemini.com
Daniela Rittmeier is a Supervisory Board member, a 
trusted C-level-advisor and the Head of Capgemini’s 
Generative AI Accelerator. She brings more than two 
decades experience in initiating, developing and realizing 
transformation in health, life science, automotive, IT & 
beyond.
Daniela gained deep dive automotive industry knowledge 
in the decade she was part of the BMW Group. Daniela 
Rittmeier was responsible for the integration of Artificial 
Intelligence technologies based on the realization of 
the first autonomous driving platform, the corporate 
AI strategy, the AI Hub of the Center of Excellence incl. 
a portfolio of ~600 data driven use cases along the 
entire value chain. As multiple awarded thought leader 
she is focusing on data value creation and sustainable 
human centric solutions. Daniela is committed to 
empower Women in Tech, Coding for Kids and the digital 
sovereignty of society.
105
Capgemini Research Institute 2025
Rise of agentic AI: How trust is the key to human-AI collaboration
PAGE 106
Jerome Buvat
Head, Capgemini Research Institute
jerome.buvat@capgemini.com
Amol Khadikar
Director, Capgemini Research 
Institute 
amol.khadikar@capgemini.com
VAIshnavee Ananth
Senior Consultant, Capgemini 
Research Institute
vaishnavee.a@capgemini.com
Abhiruchi Masurkar
Senior Consultant, Capgemini Research 
Institute
abhiruchi.masurkar@capgemini.com
Authors
Meet the Capgemini Research Institute The contributors would like to thank, Franck Greverie, Mark 
Oost, Mark Roberts, Alex Marandon, Andreas Sjostrom, 
Andy M Feinstein, Andy Vickers, Ralf Bus, Anne-Violaine 
Monnie-Agazzi, Juliette Merour, Weiwei Feng, Jiani Ziang, 
James Wilson, Sebastien Guibert, Marek Sowa, Prasad K 
Shyam, Ajay Mohan, Claudia Crummenerl, Elisa Farri, Gabriele 
Rosani, Eric Reich, Kary Bheemaiah, Courtney Pace, Mathilde 
Gailledreau, Miguel Viedma, Etienne Grass, Ramon Angel 
Antelo Reguengo, Jonathan Aston, Lucy Mason, Javier 
Moreno, Bashkim Berzati, Karine Sacepe, Alvaro Cuya, Nicolas 
Gaudilliere, Menno Van Doorn, Joakim Wahlqvist, Aashish 
Sharma, Vincent Biraud, Pravin M Amnieh, Dheeren Velu, 
Efi Raili, Alex Smith-Bingham, Daniel Garschagen, Vivian 
Yang, Angela Sahi, Larry Villaret, Damien Stulemeijer, Máté 
Vincze, Meenu Dahiya, Shilpashree S, Susanna Östberg, Fleur 
DU PASQUIER, Toni Sullivan, Raveena Sharma, Bridget N 
Pietsch, Martyn Wronkowski, Subrahmanyam Kanakadandi, 
Dominique Banon, Donald Francis, Punam Chavan, Aparajita 
Paul, Vibha Palekar, Manish Saha, Amitabha Duttu and 
Jaydeep Neogi for their contributions to the research.
About the Capgemini Research 
Institute
The Capgemini Research Institute is Capgemini’s 
in-house think tank on all things digital. The Institute 
publishes research on the impact of digital technologies 
on large traditional businesses. The team draws on the 
worldwide network of Capgemini experts and works 
closely with academic and technology partners. The 
Institute has dedicated research centers in India, 
Singapore, the United Kingdom, and the United States. 
The Institute was ranked #1 in the world for the quality 
of its research by independent analysts for six 
consecutive times - an industry first. Visit us at www.
capgemini.com/researchinstitute/
106
Capgemini Research Institute 2025
Rise of agentic AI: How trust is the key to human-AI collaboration
PAGE 107
For more information, please contact:
Sergey Patsko 
Vice President, Data and AI Group 
Offer Leader, Capgemini
sergey.patsko@capgemini.com
Ajay Mohan  
Head of AI, Analytics, and Data Science, Center of 
Excellence, Insights and Data North America, Capgemini 
ajay.mohan@capgemini.com
Balasubramaniam Natarajan  
Vice President, Generative AI & Analytics
bala.natarajan@capgemini.com
Craig Suckling  
Vice president, Head of AI, Capgemini Europe
craig.suckling@capgemini.com
Anne-Laure Thibaud  
Executive Vice President, Head of AI 
First Business & Analytics, Capgemini
annelaure.thibaud@capgemini.com
Marc Chemin 
Executive Vice President, Global Sales 
Officer, Insights and Data, Capgemini
marc.chemin@capgemini.com
Mark Oost 
Vice President, AI and Generative AI 
Group Offer Lead, Capgemini
mark.oost@capgemini.com
Itziar Goicoechea-Martinez  
Senior Director, AI and Generative AI Offer, 
Capgemini
itziar.goicoechea-martinez@capgemini.com
Central team:
North America India & APAC
UK & Europe
Regional team:
107
Capgemini Research Institute 2025
Rise of agentic AI: How trust is the key to human-AI collaboration
PAGE 108
Resonance AI framework by Capgemini 
The Resonance AI framework by Capgemini provides a sequential 
approach to the conceptualization, structuring, and implementation 
of successful AI-driven transformation. It helps business leaders 
realize AI’s potential and achieve market leadership regardless of 
the industry. Anchored in transformation strategy, the Framework 
helps integrate operations and culture while accelerating AI value 
creation– to both transform today and build for tomorrow.   
ADOPTADOPT
ADAPT
ACCESS
HUMAN-AI-CHEMISTRY
                  WAVES OF AI VALUE
Transform NowAdoptation to 
collaboration Operational eﬃciency
Hyper-personalized experience
Tech to data
AI READINESS
AI ESSENTIALS
Build Tomorrow
Business (re)invention
Next frontier innovation
108
Capgemini Research Institute 2025
Rise of agentic AI: How trust is the key to human-AI collaboration
PAGE 109
AI essentials
To access the transformative power of AI, organizations must 
establish ‘Intelligence-as-a-Service.’ That includes scalable and robust 
enterprise data foundations combined with advanced language and 
vision models, and applications with built-in AI capabilities. These 
provide the foundation to build, operate, and scale AI with real, 
enterprise-specific impact.
AI readiness
Adapting AI to an organization’s context requires the right enablers 
and guardrails to secure, govern, customize, and operationalize AI. 
Success hinges on the ability to empower an organization to scale 
AI while ensuring secure, ethical, and aligned organizational AI 
capabilities deployed on trusted Data foundations and managed as 
business resources.
Human-AI chemistry
Organizations adopt hybrid forms of collaboration by designing 
the clear roles and intuitive interactions that enable seamless 
collaboration between humans and AI. This mutual reliability and 
collaboration defines ‘human–AI chemistry’– the new alchemy of 
innovation and defining success factor in your AI journey. 
Waves of value
With the technological, governance and collaborative foundations 
in place, AI value creation is poised for acceleration across an 
organization, ready to deliver the operational efficiency, personized 
experiences, business reinvention and next frontier innovation that 
enable an organization to transform today and build for tomorrow. 
109
Capgemini Research Institute 2025
Rise of agentic AI: How trust is the key to human-AI collaboration
PAGE 110
Driving enterprise transformation through seamless, scalable & 
intelligent Agentic AI integration
AI agents are autonomous, goal-oriented, context-aware, adaptive, proactive, and language-aware enabling 24/7 hyper-automation of business and IT operations for tasks and inputs that 
are variable by nature. They interact with users and perform tasks autonomously, making human-AI interactions more natural and efficient. 
By embracing agentic AI, businesses can significantly enhance operational efficiency through seamless collaboration between AI agents and human teams. These AI agents act as powerful 
knowledge and capability multipliers, enabling teams to deliver greater value and drive growth.  
 
Our partnership with NVIDIA  in building over 100 bespoke AI agent-driven solutions tailored to various industry use cases, from life sciences, telco or financial services to manufacturing and retail, 
and also our strategic partnership with Google Cloud  to revolutionize CX across industries with agentic AI, is the testament to the act that the future of enterprise operations lies in the seamless 
integration of AI agents working together with humans and under their control.  
 
More on our Agentic AI offerings: https://www.capgemini.com/solutions/agentic-AI-for-enterprise-by-capgemini/
As AI agents transform the way businesses operate, leading to unprecedented levels of productivity, scalable efficiency and innovation, we help organizations navigate the complexities of 
implementing agentic AI solutions, bringing robust governance frameworks that allow compliance, scalability, and consistent performance. We also address strategic objectives such as:  
By adopting a process-based methodology for 
an AI based transformation we ensure we deliver 
significant ROI due to the end- to-end approach.
We select the most suitable technology per agent, develop, 
integrate them into the IT system, orchestrate and control 
them, and ensure trust 
By adjusting the organization and enterprise processes and 
improving the needed skills. We propose different models of 
collaboration between human and AI agents.
Agentic AI for Enterprise by Capgemini
Process based methodology Implementing AI agents at scale Adapting operating model
110
Capgemini Research Institute 2025
Rise of agentic AI: How trust is the key to human-AI collaboration
PAGE 111
This report is a part of Capgemini Research Institute‘s series 
on Generative Al
Special edition of our premium journal Conversations for tomorrow on Gen AI
Gen AI in supply chain*
Gen AI in manufacturing*
Gen AI for marketing
Gen Al and agentic AI in business operations
Agentic AI 
Gen Al and cybersecurity
Gen Al and ethics/ trust*
Data powered enterprisesGen AI for software engineering
Gen AI in R&D and engineering
Gen AI and sustainability
Gen AI at work Gen AI in customer service
Gen AI in organizations - annual research
Gen AI and
consumers
*Upcoming reports 
To find out more, please go to https://www.capgemini.com/insights/research-institute/
111
Capgemini Research Institute 2025
Rise of agentic AI: How trust is the key to human-AI collaboration
PAGE 112
AI in action: How gen AI and agentic 
AI redefine business operations
Data foundations for government: 
From AI ambition to execution
Unleashing the value of customer 
service: The transformative impact 
of Gen AI and agentic AI
Gen AI at work: Shaping the future 
of organizations
AI and Generative AI in 
cybersecurity
Data-powered enterprises: 
The path to data mastery
Top tech trends of 2025: 
AI-powered everything
Developing sustainable Gen AI
More Capgemini Research Institute publications
112
Capgemini Research Institute 2025
Rise of agentic AI: How trust is the key to human-AI collaboration
PAGE 113
More Capgemini Research Institute publications
First Name
Last Name
Email
Fields marked with an    are required 
Capgemini Research Institute
By submitting this form, I understand that my data will be processed by Capgemini as indicated above and 
described in the Terms of use. 
Submit
Receive copies of our reports by scanning 
the QR code or visiting
https://www.capgemini.com/capgemini-research-institute-subscription/
Subscribe to latest research 
from the Capgemini Research Institute
113
Capgemini Research Institute 2025
Rise of agentic AI: How trust is the key to human-AI collaboration
PAGE 114
    
Notes
114
Capgemini Research Institute 2025
Rise of agentic AI: How trust is the key to human-AI collaboration
PAGE 115
    
Notes
115
Capgemini Research Institute 2025
Rise of agentic AI: How trust is the key to human-AI collaboration
PAGE 116
Copyright © 2025 Capgemini. All rights reserved.
About Capgemini
Capgemini is a global business and technology transformation partner, 
helping organizations to accelerate their dual transition to a digital and 
sustainable world, while creating tangible impact for enterprises and 
society. It is a responsible and diverse group of 340,000 team members in 
more than 50 countries. With its strong over 55-year heritage, Capgemini 
is trusted by its clients to unlock the value of technology to address the 
entire breadth of their business needs. It delivers end-to-end services and 
solutions leveraging strengths from strategy and design to engineering, all 
fueled by its market leading capabilities in AI, generative AI, cloud and data, 
combined with its deep industry expertise and partner ecosystem. The 
Group reported 2024 global revenues of €22.1 billion.
Get the Future You Want | www.capgemini.com